    Customer Protection Policy  
  
Page 1 of 9 
Updated: June 2023   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Customer Protection Policy                   
(Unauthorized Electronic Banking 
Transactions)  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
      Customer Protection Policy  
  
Page 2 of 9 
Updated: June 2023   
   
1. Introduction:  
  
With the increased thrust on Digital Payments and considering the surge in customer 
grievances relating to unauthorized transactions resulting in debits to their accounts / 
cards / UPI/ mobile wallets, the criteria for determining the customer liability in  these 
circumstances have been reviewed for electronic banking transactions.  
 
Taking into account the risks arising out of unauthorized debits to customer accounts 
owing to customer negligence / Bank negligence / banking system frauds / third party 
breach es, the rights and obligations of customers in case of unauthorized transactions 
in specified scenarios, aspects of customer protection, including the mechanism of 
creating customer awareness on the risks and responsibilities involved in electronic 
banking  transactions and customer liability in such cases of unauthorized electronic 
banking transactions were reviewed and a policy was prepared in line with the RBI 
notification dated RBI/2017 -18/15 BR.No.Leg.BC.78/09.07.005/2017 -18 July 6, 2017 
on Customer pro tection -Limiting Liability of customers in unauthorized Electronic 
Banking Transactions.  
  
2. Objective of the Policy:  
  
This policy document aims to provide framework on limiting liability of customers 
against the risks arising out of unauthorized debits to customer accounts owing to 
unauthorized electronic banking transactions due to customer negligence / Bank 
negligence /  banking system frauds / third party breaches and to clearly define the 
rights and obligations of customers in case of unauthorized transactions in specified 
scenarios to use electronic banking channel.  
 
It also defines the maximum customer liability for the electronic banking transactions 
to make customers feel safe about carrying out electronic banking transactions. This 
is intended to provide boon to customer service to make customers feel safe about 
carrying out electronic banking transactions which he lps to increase the trust in Digital 
payments and deepen the digital payments of the Bank.  
 
3. Scope/Coverage:  
  
Electronic Banking Transactions generally covers transactions through following 
modes -  
i) Remote/ Online Payment Transaction (e.g. Mobile Banking, Card not 
present Transactions, Internet Banking, Pre Paid Payment Instruments 
etc.)  
ii) Face to Face/ Proximity Transaction (e.g. ATM, POS, QR code based  
Transactions  etc.) 
iii) Any other transaction done b y electronic mode and accepted by the Bank 
for debiting/crediting customer account.   
      Customer Protection Policy  
  
Page 3 of 9 
Updated: June 2023   
 4. Right and Obligation of customer in case of unauthorized electronic 
banking transaction in specified scenario:  
  
i) Scenario 1: Customer Negligence –  
 
Unauthorized Electronic Banking Transaction happened due to customer 
negligence (such as where he has shared the payment credentials – card 
number, expiry period, OTP, clicked on unknown links etc.) Customer is 
required to be vigilant while doing electroni c banking transaction and 
needs to ensure that the mobile number is registered with the bank and 
that checks the SMS alerts/statement of the accounts. Customer needs 
to immediately block the digital channel as per Table 3 of Annexure 1 and 
mandatorily regi ster/ lodge the complaint under unauthorized transaction 
category with the Bank/ Branch/ Contact Center, etc. as per available 
channels mentioned in Table 4 of Annexure 1. 
  
Customer Liability – 100% of the unauthorized electronic banking 
transaction amoun t will be customer liability and this will be notified to the 
customer as response to the customer complaint and the complaint will be 
treated as closed by the Bank.  
  
Customer Right – Customer has to bear the entire loss of the transaction 
amount until he  / she reports the unauthorized electronic banking 
transaction to the Bank/ Contact Center/ Branch, etc. where the negligence 
lies with the customer. Any loss (upto the value dated transaction amount) 
occurring after the reporting of the unauthorized elect ronic banking 
transaction to the Bank/ Contact Center/ Branch etc., shall be borne by the 
Bank; if the channel or product wherein the unauthorised electronic 
transaction has not been blocked or no action initiated by the bank 
branches/ contact center etc.  
  
Customer Obligation – Customer to minimize his loss is required to 
approach the Bank/ Contact Center/ Branch, etc., as soon as the customer 
is aware about the unauthorized debit for blocking of the digital channel as 
per Table 3 of Annexure 1 and mandatorily register/ lodge the complaint 
under unauthorized transaction category with the Bank/ Branch/ Contact 
Center, etc as per available channels mentioned in Table 4 of Annexure 1. 
   
ii) Scenario 2: Bank’s Negligence –  
 
Unauthorized Electronic Ban king Transaction happened due to 
Contributory fraud / negligence / deficiency on the part of the Bank (either 
committed by Bank staff or Bank vendor) – (irrespective of whether or not 
the transaction is reported by the customer):  
  
Customer Liability – Zero Liability        Customer Protection Policy  
  
Page 4 of 9 
Updated: June 2023   
 Customer Right – In such cases where customer has suffered loss due to 
Contributory fraud / negligence / deficiency of system on the part of Bank’s 
system/ Branch/ Contact Center, etc. Customer is having right to get the 
compensation from the Bank as per referenced RBI circular which is limited 
upto the value date transaction amount of the unauthorised electronic 
banking transaction.  
  
Customer Obligation –   Customer is required to check the SMS / Email 
alert/ account statement and has to approach the Bank/ Contact Center/ 
Branch, etc. as soon as the customer aware about the unauthorized 
electronic banking debit transaction for blocking of the digital channel as per 
Table 3 of Annexure 1 and mandatorily register/ lodge the complaint under 
unauthorized transaction category with the Bank/ Branch/ Contact Center, 
etc. as per available channels mentioned in Table 4 of Annexure 1.  
   
iii) Scenario 3:  Third Party Breach –  
 
Unauthorized Electronic Banking Transaction happened due to Third 
party breach where the deficiency lies neither with the Bank nor with the 
Customer but lies elsewhere in the System. Customer needs to 
immediately block the digital channel as per Table 3 of  Annexure 1 and 
mandatorily register/ lodge the complaint under unauthorized transaction 
category with the Bank/ Branch/ Contact Center, etc. as per available 
channels mentioned in Table 4 of Annexure 1.  
  
Customer Liability – Customer Liability will be as certained based on the 
time taken by the customer to report the unauthorized electronic banking 
transaction as per Table 1 & Table 2 mentioned in Annexure 1.  
  
Customer Right – In such cases where customer has suffered loss due to 
third party breach where the deficiency lies neither with the Bank nor with 
the customer but lies elsewhere in the system, and the customer has notified 
the Bank within seven working days . Customer is h aving the right to get 
the compensation from Bank, which is limited upto the value date 
unauthorised electronic banking transaction amount as per Table 1 & Table 
2 of Annexure 1. In such cases where customer has notified the 
unauthorized transaction to Ban k after 7 days, Bank will have no liability, 
and this will suitably be communicated to the customer. Bank will try to pass 
the customer claim through Bank’s Insurance Agency/ NPCI Chargeback 
process for that channel if available on best effort basis.  
 
Cust omer Obligation –   Customer is required to check the SMS / Email 
alert/ account statement and approach the Bank as soon as the customer 
becomes aware of the unauthorized electronic banking transaction debit for 
blocking of the digital channel as per Table  3 of Annexure 1 and mandatorily 
register/ lodge the complaint under unauthorized transaction category with 
the Bank/ Branch/ Contact Center, etc. as per available channels mentioned 
in Table 4 of Annexure 1.       Customer Protection Policy  
  
Page 5 of 9 
Updated: June 2023   
   
5. Process for Shadow reversal of unauthorised electronic banking in 
customer’s account:  
 
i) If customer negligence been observed, then Bank will treat such cases as 
100% customer liability and shadow credit in customer’s account will not 
be given.  
 
ii) If, it is limited liability case (scenario 2 and 3) then  Bank is required to give 
shadow credit of amount limited to the unauthorised electronic banking 
transaction as applicable to customer account within 8 working days from 
the date of such notification by Customer. Respective Digital Group 
Channel team of Ba nk will reverse the amount from customer’s account 
or realize the shadow credited amount in customer account within 85 
working days basis the ascertaining of the evidences of the transaction.  
 
6. Dispute Resolution Process - Notifying the Bank in respect of Un authorized 
Electronic Banking transaction:   
  
i) Customer is required to immediately report the unauthorized electronic 
banking transaction through various channels provided by the Bank and 
displayed at Bank website.   
ii) On receipt customer’s complaint (notification), Bank will take immediate 
steps to prevent further unauthorized transaction in the account and by 
blocking/ deregistering customer from notified electronic channel.  
iii) The timeline for resolving all such complai nt will be 90 days from the date 
of receipt of the complaint. Customer is required to provide following 
details to  report the unauthorized transaction -  
 Channel details like channel name, location etc.   
 Transaction details like transaction type, account, date, amount etc.   
 Fraud incident details i.e. Modus Operandi   
 Copy of FIR  
 Compromised channel’s working status – blocked/ unregistered  
  
Bank on its own discretion, may also seek the following details/ documents from  
the customer to investigate the co mplaint .  
 Claim Form (Bank will provide the format)  
 Copy of FIR duly attested by Notary Public.   
 An undertaking for loss amount upto Rs.25000/ - and Affidavit for and 
amount above Rs. 25000/ - (Bank will provide the format)  
 Copy of a/c Passbook, which sho ws transactions date, time & amount 
(Bank Passbook 1st Page & 1 Month statement prior to fraudulent  
transaction to till date also required)/statement  
 Photo copies of all pages of Passport, if applicable.  
 Translated copy of documents in English duly atte sted by Notary Public, 
if the documents are in regional language.  
      Customer Protection Policy  
  
Page 6 of 9 
Updated: June 2023   
 7. Customer’s Responsibility:  
  
• Bank will not be under obligation and responsible for loss to the customers due 
to customer’s carelessness in keeping cards, Use ID, login ID, PIN, OTP or 
other security information and not adhering “Do’s and Don’ts” issued by the 
Bank, until and unless the Bank has been notified by the customer. Bank has 
already publish Do’s and Don’ts for our customers on Bank’s corporate website 
at https://www.bankofbaroda.com/contact -centre.htm    
  
Bank is also using various modes for educating our customers such as Print / 
Social/ Electronic Media, Person alized SMS,  Email, Push notification, 
publishing product specific information for safe and secure transactions on 
corporate website etc.  
  
• The Bank will not be responsible for loss to the customer, if the customer acts 
fraudulently and /or acts without re asonable care which has resulted in loss. 
Bank will also not be responsible for loss arising out of loss of cards, login ID,  
PIN, compromise of password or confidential information until and unless the 
Bank has been notified of such loss/compromise and Ba nk has taken steps to 
prevent its misuse.  
 
• The Bank will not be responsible for loss to the customer, if the customer has 
not notified his current Mobile number, Address, email ID with his base branch.  
These updated information is required to Bank to sen d Transaction Alert / other 
information to customer.  
 
• Bank has also provided Self -Account blocking feature for customer through 
various channels. In case of suspicious, unauthorized or fraudulent debit 
transactions, customers may block account by themselv es through various 
channels as under:  
 
Channels 
available  Path for blocking the account  
Bank’s 
Website  https://www.bankofbaroda.in/       Contact Us please       click 
Online Account Blocking Portal  
bob World  
Internet  please click on link SELF ACCOUNT BLOCKING  
UPI Open BHIM Baroda Pay App         Account Blocking.  
Bob World  Open Bob World App More Self account block  
WhatsApp 
Banking  5.Block Digital Channel  / Account (Block)      1.Account 
Blocking (Accblk)  
 
  
 
 
     Customer Protection Policy  
  
Page 7 of 9 
Updated: June 2023   
 8. Facility of Electronic transaction to such customers which have not 
registered their mobile number in their accounts:  
  
As per the referenced RBI notification “The banks may not offer facility of electronic 
transactions, other than ATM cash withdrawals, to customers who do not provide 
mobile numbers to the bank”. Broadly, the electronic banking transactions are divided 
into two categories:   
 
a. Face to face / proximity payment transactions  – All these transactions 
are performed in physical prese nce of customer based on the two factor 
authentication.  
  
b. Remote/ online payment transactions  – All these transactions are 
performed based on the two factor authentication. Customer who have 
not registered their mobile number in their account are not able to use 
Bank’s various applications like bob World, bob World Internet, BHIM 
Baroda Pay etc. They are also not able to perform E -commerce 
transaction through bob World Debit as Bank is using OTP authentication 
as second factor authentication in these transa ctions.   
  
Hence for registration of any Digital product, mobile number registration is mandatory.    
 
9. Force Majeure:  
  
The Bank shall not be liable to compensate customers for delayed credit, if some 
unforeseen events (including but not limited to civil commotion, sabotage, lockout, 
strike or other labour disturbances, accident, fires, natural disasters/calamities or other 
“Acts of God”, Pandemic situation like COVID -19, War, damage to the Bank’s facilities 
or of its correspondent , no connectivity, absen ce of the usual means of 
communication or all types of transportation etc., which are beyond the control of the 
Bank, prevent the Bank from performing Banking obligations within the specified 
service delivery parameters.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Customer Protection Policy  
  
Page 8 of 9 
Updated: June 2023   
 Annexure – 1  
 
Table -1 
 
Maximum Liability of a customer.  
(Fraudulent transaction reported to the Bank within 4 to 7 days)  
 
Type of Account  Maximum Customer  
Liability  
 Basic Saving Bank Deposit accounts  Rs. 5,000/ -  
 All other SB accounts    
 Pre-paid payment Instruments and Gift Cards    
 Current / Cash credit / Overdraft Account of MSMEs    
 Current Accounts / Cash Credit / Overdraft Account of 
Individuals with annual average balance (during 365 days 
preceding the incidence of fraud) / limit up to Rs. 25 lacs  
 Credit cards with limit upto Rs. 5 lacs  Rs. 10,000/ -  
 All other Current / Cash Credit / Overdraft Account  
 Credit cards with limit above Rs. 5 lacs  Rs. 25,000/ -  
  
 
Table -2  
 
Overall liability of the customer in third party breaches in such Unauthorised  
Electronic Banking Transactions where the deficiency lies neither with the 
bank nor with the customer but lies elsewhere in the system  
 
Time taken to report the fraudulent 
transaction from the date of receiving the 
communication  Customer liability   
Within 3 working days  Zero liability.  
Within 4 to 7 working days   The  transaction  value  or  the 
amount mentioned in Table 1, 
whichever is lower  
Beyond 7 working days  100% Liability.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     Customer Protection Policy  
  
Page 9 of 9 
Updated: June 2023   
  
Table -3 
 
Current Channels available for blocking of Digital channels namely bob World 
Debit, bob World, bob World Internet and UPI  
 
Mode of blocking 
channel  Bank's major Digital Products  
 bob World 
Debit  UPI bob World  bob World 
Internet  
Contact Centre (Agents)  Yes Yes Yes Yes 
IVR Yes Yes Yes (through 
Agents)  Yes 
Branch (in business 
hours)  Yes Yes Yes Yes 
Mobile Banking  Yes    
Net Banking  Yes    
WhatsApp Banking  Yes Yes   
SMS Facility   Yes Yes  
Bob World UPI App   Yes   
 
 
Table -4  
 
Current Channels available for registration of customer complaint related to 
unauthorized Electronic Banking Transactions – 
 
  
Channel  Availability  Timing  
Toll free number through contact centre  24X7  24X7  
Bank’s Website  24X7  24X7  
Bank’s Application – bob World and bob 
World Internet  24X7  24X7  
Reporting to Home branch  During the branch banking timing  
 