How To Open A Savings Account  
There is two main ways to open a savings bank account:  
Walking to a branch  
You can go to your nearest  Bank of Baroda branch  and ask the bank officials how to 
open an account. You are asked to fill out a form. The bank official will ask for details 
required as per the ‘Know Your Customer’ (KYC) format that includes address proof, 
identity proof, statutory government registratio ns like a PAN card will be required along 
with your photographs. You will also be asked if you want to open a joint account with 
anyone else. In the case of a child, a  minor savings account  is opened that is operated 
by the parent.  
Online  
If you want to open your savings bank account online, you can do so either through a 
computer or a mobile way of opening a form. Most details are captured online in this 
case with a minimum physical interface with the bank.  
Who Can Open A Savings Bank Account?  
Each bank has its own Terms and Conditions which needs to be satisfied before an 
account is opened. Most of these conditions are common and set by the central bank – 
Reserve Bank of India.  
At the time of opening an account, you will be made to sign a number of documents 
which include that he has understood all the Terms and Conditions of the bank. It is 
thus necessary to read through the document before signing. Only illiterate depositors 
can use their thumb impression.  
Signature and KYC Documentation  
Bank signature is the key to operate the account. Signature mismatch not only leads to 
heartburns but also other problems which can result in blocking of the account. You will 
need to be careful while signing the form and maintain this signature throughout  life.  
KYC Documentations have increased over the year. The main documentation needed is 
for the identity of the customer and identifying his address.  
In identity proof the documents that are generally valid are – passport, driving licence 
with photograph, Permanent Account Number (PAN Number), Voters identity card, Job 
card issued by NREGA (National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, 2005) – attested by a 
government official and an Aadhar card or any other document issued by the Unique 
Identification Authority of India.  
For address proof, you can submit any of the above documents apart from the PAN 
card.  Pass Book  
Banks can offer Pass Book facility for a savings account holder for free or for a small fee. 
You, however, can access the statement of your account online using  internet banking . 
Safety of Savings Accounts  
Savings account in a bank is generally insured by the Deposit Insurance and Credit 
Guarantee Corporation (DICGC). This insurance facility offers an assurance that your 
money is safe.  
 