•)Hcri3ll!li~ ~ Bank of Baroda 
g ::.-:: 11,fMWM 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
DEPOSIT POLICY- (2023 -2026) 
SNO CONTENTS PAGE NO 
1. Preamble 4 
Chapter - I 
2. Types of Deposit Account 5-6 
3. Account Opening and Op erations of Deposit Accounts 7-15 
3.1 Account Openinq 7-9 
3.2 Operations of Deposit Accounts 10 
3.3 Operational Instructions 10-11 
3.4 Addition or Deletion of the name/s of Joint Account Holders 11 
3.5 Nomination 11-12 
3.6 Minors' Account 12-13 
3.7 Account of illiterate/ Blind Person 13 
3.8 Transfer of Account 13 
3.9 Account Statement 13 
3.10 Interest Payment 14 
3.11 Debit Card Hot Listinq 14 
3.12 Stop Payment Facility 14 
3.13 Dormant Accounts/ Inoperative Accounts 15 
3.14 Unclaimed Account/Deposit 15 
4. Term Deposit 16-24 
4.1 Tvoe of Term Deposit 16-18 
4.2 Interest Payment 18-20 - 4.3 Premature Withdrawal of Callable Term Deposit 20-22 
4.4 Renewal of Term Deposit before maturity 22 
4.5 Renewal of Overdue Term Deposit 22-23 -- 4.6 Advances Aaainst Deposits 23 
4.7 Settlement of dues in Deceased Deposit Account 23-24 
4.8 Interest payable on Term Deposit in Deceased Account 24 
4.9 Insurance Cover for Deposit 24 
Chapter - II 
5. Accounts related to Non-Resident Indian, OCI and PIO 25-37 
5.1 General Information/Definition 25 
5.2 Non- Resident Indian 25-26 
5.3 Person Of Indian Oriqin 26 
5.4 (a) For Overseas Corporate Bodies (OCB) Accounts 26-27 ----- 
5.4 (b) Overseas Citizenship of India (OCI) commonly known as 'Dual 
Citizenship' 27-28 
5.5 General Guidelines 28-30 
Page 1 of 59 , IXI~ ~ ,' 
/M) lfilj 3ll!li ~ ~ Bank of Baroda 
g .... lj,fW#M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
5.6 Non-Resident (Ordinary) Rupee Account 30-34 
5.7 NRO Term Deposit 34-37 
6. Non-Resident (External) Rupee Account 37-39 
6.1 NRE Term Deposit - Tenor 37 
6.2 Joint Account 37 
6.3 Nomination and Settlement of Deceased Account 38 
6.4 Temporary Overdrawing 38 
6.5 Waiver of Penalty 38 
6.6 Interest rate on NRE Savings Deposit Account 38 
6.7 Tax Exemption 39 
6.8 Penalty on premature withdrawal of NRE deposits 39 
7. Foreign Currency (Non-Resident) Account (Bank) Scheme [FCNR 
(B) Account] 39-44 
7.1 General 39 
7.2 Nomenclature of the scheme 39 
7.3 Eligibility 39 
7.4 Currency 40 
7.5 Period 40 
7.6 Rate of Interest 40-41 
7.7 Repatriation 41 
7.8 Permissible Debits/ Credits 41 
7.9 Calculation of Interest 42 
7.10 Payment of Interest on FCNR (8) deposits 42 
7.11 Payment of Interest on Overdue FCNR (8) Deposit 42-43 
7.12 Payment of Interest on Premature Withdrawal 43-44 
7.13 Interest payable on the deposit of a deceased FCNR (8) 
depositor 44 
8. Special Non-Resident Rupee Acc ount (SNRR Account) 45 
9. Baroda Resident Foreign Currency (RFC) Account 46-49 
9.1 Type of Accounts 46 
9.2 Rate of Interest on Term Deposit 46 
9.3 Other Aspects 46 
9.4 Joint Account 47 
9.5 Remittance after account holder's death by a Nominee 
Resident Outside India 47 
9.6 Resident Foreign Currency (Domestic) Account. [RFC 
(0) Account] 47-48 
9.7 Operation in the Account 48-49 
10. Exchange Earners' Foreign Currency (EEFC) Account Scheme 49-50 
11. Diamond Dollar Account (DDA) Scheme - DDA Account .~ 50-51 ', I 
Page 2 of 59 
IMJ ifi1i 3ii!n ~ ~ Bank of Baroda 
g ::::-: 11,[M. 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
12. Baroda Advantage Fixed Deposit (Non-Callable) under RIRD / MIP / QIP 
Scheme for NRI Customers 51 
Chapter- Ill 
13. Interest rate Framework 52-54 
14. Prohibitions and Exemptions 55-56 
15. Other Important Information 57-59 
15.1 Customer Information 57 
15.2 Rights of Depositors 57 
15.3 Secrecy of Customers Accounts 57 
15.4 Suo Moto Closure of Saving and Current Account 57-58 
15.5 Redressal of Complaint and Grievance 59 
15.6 Compliance 59 
15.7 Periodicity of Review of the Policy (Sunset Clause) 59 
' ! _,_ - - ;,m';jq ,, 
I ~L ,I L1~biiitiAS 
~.~~ 
Page 3 of 59 
{M) tm, 3ll!li ~ ~ Bank of Baroda a ..... lh&#M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
DEPOSIT POLICY 
1. PREAMBLE: 
One of the important functions of the Bank is to accept deposits from the public 
for the purpose of lending. In fact, depositors are the major stakeholders of the 
Banking System. The depositors and their interests form the key area of the 
regulatory framework for Banking in India and this has been enshrined in the 
Banking Regulation Act, 1949. The Reserve Bank of India is empowered to 
issue directives / advices on interest rates on deposits and other aspects 
regarding conduct of deposit accounts from time to time. With liberalization in 
the financial system and deregulation of interest rates, Bank is now free to 
formulate deposit products within the broad guidelines issued by RBI. 
This policy document on deposits outlines the guiding principles in respect of 
formulation of various deposit products offered by the Bank and terms and 
conditions governing the conduct of the account. The document recognizes the 
rights of depositors and a ims at dissemination of information with regard to 
various aspects of acceptance of deposits from the members of the public, 
conduct and operations of various deposits accounts, payment of interest on 
various deposit accounts, closure of deposit accounts, method of disposal of 
deposits of decea sed depositors, etc., for the benefit of customers. It is 
expected that this document will impart greater transparency in dealing with 
the individual customers and create awareness among customers of their 
rights. The ultimate objective is that the customer will get services they are 
rightfully entitled to receive without demand. 
While adopting this policy, the Bank reiterates its commitment to individual 
customers outlined in Bankers' Fair Practice Code of Indian Bank Association. 
This document is a broad framework under which the Rights of common 
Depositors are recognized. Bank reserves the right to am end/modify this policy 
as and when deemed fit and proper at its sole discretion. Detailed operational 
instructions on various Deposit Schemes and related services are issued from 
time to time. 
Page 4 of 59 
•) Hcfi 3ll!li ~ ~ Bank of Baroda 
1:1 .... 1HM 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
CHAPTER 1 
2. TYPES OF DEPOSIT ACCOUNTS AND DEFINITIONS: 
While various Deposit products offered by the Bank are assigned different 
names. The Depos it products can be categorized broadly into the following 
types. Definition of major deposits schemes are as under: - 
a) "Demand Deposits" means a Deposit received by the Bank which is 
withdrawable on demand. 
b) "Savings Deposits" means a form of interest bearing Demand Deposit 
which is subject to restrictions as to the number of withdrawals as also the 
amounts of withdrawals permitted by the Bank during any specified period; 
c) "Term Deposit" means a Interest bearing deposit received by the Bank 
for a fixed period and include Deposits such as Recurring /Cumulative 
/Annuity /Reinvestment deposits and Cash Certificates; 
d) "Deposit at Notice" means Term Deposit for spec ific period but 
withdrawable on giving at least one complete Banking days' notice. 
e) "Current Account Deposits" means a form of non-interest bearing 
Demand Deposit wherefrom withdrawals are allowed any number of times 
depending upon the balance in the account or up to a particular agreed 
amount and a lso includes other Deposit accou nts which are neither 
Savings Deposit nor Term Deposit. 
f) Bulk Deposit Bulk Deposit" Single Rupee term deposits of Rupees two 
crore and a bove for Scheduled Comme rcial Banks (excluding Regional Rural 
banks) and Small Finance Banks. 
g) "Daily product" means the interest applied on the end of day balance. 
h) "Domestic Rupee Deposits" mean rupee deposits maintained in India in the 
form of current account, savings deposits or term deposit. 
i) "Family " includes members as m entioned in the bank's Service/Staff 
Regulations. 
j) "Individual" means a natural person. 
Page 5 of 59 
~.) ti/i 3ll!li iJl!TGf 
1~ Bank of Baroda 
g ~.. I l•fW\i/M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
k) "Member of the bank's staff' means a person employed on a regular basis, 
whether full-time or part-time, and includes a person recruited on probation or 
employed on a contract of a specified duration or on deputation and an 
employee taken over in pursuance of any scheme of amalgamation, but does 
not include a person employed o n casual basis. 
I) "Retired member of the bank's staff" means an employee retiring whether 
on superannuation or otherwise as provided in the bank's Service/Staff 
Regulations. 
m) "RFC account" means a Resident Foreign Currency account referred to in 
Foreign Exchange Manageme nt (Foreign currency accounts by a person 
resident in India) Regulations, 2000, as amended from time to time. 
Modes of Deposits: 
Deposits in account can be made by way of cash, cheques, electronic transfers 
(RTGS,IMPS,UPI), ECS, or through any other means such as Internet/Mobile 
Banking which may come into usage after giving due notice by the Bank on its 
web-site. Cash Deposits transactions at non- home branches are subject to 
certain restrictions and may also involve payment of service charges. 
Modes of Withdrawal: 
Withdrawals in account can be by way of Cheques, Withdrawal forms, through 
the use of ATM's, POS machines, by means of electronic transfer through 
Internet, by use of biometric cards, by giving Standing Instructions to the Bank, 
ECS which may come into usage after giving due notice by the Bank on its 
web-site. 
Instructions or through any other means which may come into usage after 
giving due notice by the Bank on its web-site. Cash withdrawal should be in 
round rupees . Bank does not carry out any financial transactions requested by 
the Customers through e-mail even if the request is made by a letter scanned 
as an attachment. 
Page 6 of 59 
!M) tcff 3ll!li ~ ~ Bank of Baroda 
1:1 :;;:;-: rj,,M#M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
3. 
3.1 ACCOUNT OPENING AND OPERATIONS OF DEPOSIT ACCOUNTS 
Account Opening: 
The Bank will provide its customers with details of various types of accounts 
that they may open with the Bank. Customers can make a choice on what type 
of account best suits them, based on their requirements and applicable 
guidelines. 
a) The Bank before opening any Deposit account will carry out due diligence as 
required under "Know Your Customer" (KYC) , "Anti Money Laundering" 
guidelines issued by RBI , Customer Acceptance Policy adopted by the Bank 
and o r such other norms or procedures adopted by the Bank. If the decision 
to open an account of a prospective depos itor requires clearance at a higher 
level, reasons for any delay in opening of the account will be informed to him 
and the final decision of the Bank will be conveyed at the earliest to him. 
b) The Bank is committed to provide basic Banking services to disadvantaged , 
sections of the society. Banking services will be offered to them through 
small accounts, BSBD accounts / PMJDY accounts. Small accounts will be 
opened with relaxed KYC norms as per regulatory guidelines. BSBD and 
PMJDY Savings Bank account holders may be provided with overdraft 
facilities as per regulatory norms and guidelines provided by regulators from 
time to time. As per regulatory guidelines, a customer can have on ly one 
BSBD / PMJDY account and is not allowed to have any other Savings Bank 
Account. 
c) The account opening forms and other material would be provided to the 
prospective depositor by the Bank. The same will contain details of 
information to be furnished and documents to be produced for verification and 
for record. It is expected of the Bank official opening the account, to explain 
the procedural formalities and provide necessary clarifications sought by the 
prospective depositor including information to prepare a profile for Risk 
categorization of the Customer into High /Medium /Low when he approaches 
for opening a Deposit Account. The Bank may not open account where the 
prospective customer is unable to furnish information and or in the event of 
non-cooperation by him. 
d) For depos it products of Savings Bank Account and Current Deposit Account, 
the Bank would normally stipulate certain minimum balances to be 
maintained from time to time as part of Terms and Conditions governing 
operation of such accounts. In case of BSBD / PMJDY accounts relaxation in 
minimum balance norms as per regulatory guidelines will be provided. Failure 
Page 7 of 59 
!M) tcI, 3ll!li ~ 
lt{fl!) Bank of Baroda 
g ~ 11+C#W 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
to maintain minimum balance in the account may attract levy of charges or 
conversion of accounts to different product as specified by the Bank from 
time to time. For Saving Bank Account the Bank may also place restrictions 
on number of transactions, Cash Withdrawals, etc., for given period. 
Similarly, the Bank may specify charges for issue of cheque books , additional 
statement of accounts, duplicate pass book, folio charges, etc. All such 
details, regarding Terms and Conditions for operation of the accounts and 
schedule of charges for various services provided will be displayed by the 
Bank on its web site to the prospective depositor while opening the account. 
Any changes in the schedule of charges or the Terms and Conditions will be 
displayed by the Bank on it's website to the customers 30 days in advance. 
During the notice period, the Bank will not charge for non- maintenance of 
higher minimum balance prescribed. 
e) Bank is offering digital account opening channel for both Savings Account 
and Current Account through TAB Banking. Bank is providing online opening 
of Savings account through website and through Mobile Banking which is 
being opened through Video KYC. The Account opening process is available 
in public domain and can be accessed on web through internet enabled 
Mobile/TAB/PC /Laptop. 
Eligibility for Account Opening: 
a) Savings Bank Accounts can be opened for Eligible Person / Persons 
and certain Organizations / Agencies (as advised by Reserve Bank of 
India from time to time). 
b) As per Master Direction - Reserve Bank of India (Interest Rate on 
Deposits) Directions, 2016, Bank shall not Open a Savings deposit 
account in the name of Government departments / bodies depending 
upon budgetary allocations for performance of their functions / 
Municipal Corporations or Municipal Committees / Panchayat Samitis / 
State Housing Boards / Water and Sewerage / Drainage Boards / State 
Text Book Publishing C orporations / Societies / Metropolitan 
Development Authority / State / District Level Housing Co-operative 
Societies, etc. or any political party or any trading/business or 
professional concern, whether such concern is a proprietary or a 
partnership firm or a company or an assoc iation and entities other than 
individuals, Karta of HUF and organisations/agencies listed by RBI 
in Schedule -1. 
Explanation: For the purposes of this clause, 'political party' means an 
association or body of individual citizens of India, which is, or is deemed 
to be registered with the Election Commission of India as a political 
Page 8 of 59 
!M) tri1i 3ll!li ill!ri:T ~ Bank of Baroda 
g :;-::; 1i+Mi?M 
DElOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
party under the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 
1968 as in force for the time being. 
Schedule -I 
1) Primary Co-operative Credit Society which is being financed by the bank. 
2) Khadi and Village Industries Boards. 
3) Agriculture Produce Market Committees. 
4) Societies registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 or any 
other corresponding law in force in a State or a Union Territory except 
societies registered under the State Co-operative Societies Acts and 
specific state enactment creating Land Mortgage Banks. 
5) Companies licensed by the Central Government under Section 8 of 
Companies Act, 2013 or Section 25 of Companies Act, 1956 or under the 
corresponding provision in the Indian Companies Act, 1913 and permitted, 
not to add to their names the words 'Limited' or the words 'Private Limited'. 
6) Institutions other than those mentioned in section 28(h) and whose entire 
income is exempt from payment of Income-tax under the Income-Tax Act, 
1961. 
7) Government departments / bodies / agencies in respect of grants/ 
subsidies released for implementation of various programs / Schemes 
sponso red by Central Government / State Governments subject to 
production of an authorization from the respective Central / State 
Government departments to open savings bank account. 
8) Development of Women and Children in Rural Areas (DWCRA). 
9) Self-help Groups (SHGs), registered or unregistered, which are engaged in 
promoting savings habits among their members. 
10) Farmers' Clubs - Vikas Volunteer Vahini - WV. 
"Current Accounts can be opened by individuals/ partnership firms /Private and 
Public Limited Companies/ HUFs / Specified Associates/ Societies/ Trusts, 
Departments of authority created by Government (Central or State), Limited 
Liability Partnership etc. 
"Term Deposits Accounts can be opened by Individuals / Partnership firms / 
Private an d Public Limited Companies / HUFs/ Specified Associates / 
Societies / Trusts, Departments of authority created by Government (Central 
or State), Limited Liability Partnership, etc. 
KYC and due diligence process is to be complied as per Bank's Global Policy 
On Know Your Customer (KYC) Norms Anti- Money Laundering (AML) 
Standards Combating of Financing of Terrorism (CFT) And Obligation of 
Bank under PMLA, 2002 . 
Page 9 of 59 
•) tl'ili 3ll!li ilSir:r ~ Bank of Baroda 
g = 1j,f&#lii 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
3.2 Operations of Deposit Accounts: 
a. Deposit accounts can be opened by an individual in his own name 
(status: known as account in single name) or by more than one 
individual in their own names (status: known as Joint Account). 
b. The Joint Account opened by more than one individual can be op erated 
by single individual or by more than one individual jointly (Jointly by all/ 
Either or Survivor/ Anyone or Survivor/ Latter or Survivor / Former or 
Survivor). Operating instructions of this nature are obtained from the 
customer at the time of account opening o r at a later date with due 
consent of all the account holders. The Savings Bank Account open ed 
by minor jointly with natural guardian / legal guardian can be operated 
by natural guardian / legal guardian only. 
c. Individuals resident in India may be permitted to include non-resident 
close relative (s) (relatives as defined in Section 6 o f the Companies 
Act, 1956) as a joint holder (s) in their resident Bank accounts on 
"Former or survivor" basis. However, such non-resident Indian close 
relatives shall not be eligible to op erate the accou nt during the life time 
of the resident account holder. (RBI circular no. RBl/2011-12/173 dated 
15.09.2011) 
3.3 Operational Instructions: 
The joint account holders can give an y of the following mandates for the 
disposal of balance in the above accounts: 
a. Either or Survivor: If the account is held by two individuals say, A & B , 
the final balance along with interest, if applicable, will be paid to survivor 
on death of anyone of the account holders. 
b. Anyone or Survivor/s : If the account is held by more than two 
individuals say, A, B and C, the final balance along with interest, if 
applicable, will be paid to the survivor on death of any two account 
holders. 
c. Former or Survivor: If the account is held by two individuals A& B, the 
final balance along with interest ,if applicable will be paid to the former i.e. 
A on date of maturity and to survivor(B) on death of any one of the 
account holders. The clause "Former or Survivor" becomes effective on ly 
in case of death of the original depositor and the second named account 
Page 10 of 59 
/M) trili 3ll!li iff/i"i;T ~ Bank of Baroda 
g ~.;;-; 1HM1M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
holder (B) does not have right to revoke the instructions during the 
lifetime of the first named account holder (A). 
d. Latter or Survivor: If the account is held by two individuals say, A & B, 
the final balance along with interest, if applicable, will be paid to latter (B) 
on maturity and to survivor on death of any one of the account holders. 
Clarification: A joint account opened as "Either or Survivor" or "Anyone 
or Survivors" or "Former or Survivor" or "Latter or Survivor" will permit the 
surviving accou nt holder(s) to have unimpeded access to the credit 
balance in the account for withdrawal if one of the co-account holders 
dies. 
The above mandates can be provided to the Bank at the time of opening the 
account or can be changed at any time later during the term of Deposit. Such 
Mandates can be modified by the consent of all the account holders. 
At the request of the depositor, the Bank will register mandate / Power of 
Attorney given by him authorizing another person to operate the account on his 
behalf. In the normal circumstances premature closure of a joint deposit shall 
be permitted only if all the deposit holders sign a request to that effect. 
3.4 Addition or deletion of the name/s of Joint Account Holders: 
The Bank may at the request of all the joint account holders allow addition or 
deletion of name/s of joint account holder/s if the circumstances so warrant or 
allow an individual depositor to ad d the name of another person as a joint 
account holder. However, the name of the first (considered to be the principal 
holder) cannot be deleted. 
3.5 Nomination: 
a. Nomination facility is available on all deposit accounts opened by the 
individuals singly or jointly. This is not available in accounts in the name 
of an Institution or Society or in any representative capacity as the 
holder of an office or otherwise. e.g. M.D. of a Company, Secretary of 
an Association, Partner of a Firm, Karta of a HUF etc. However, the 
facility of nomination is available in respect of deposits held in the name 
of a sole Proprietary Concern also. Nomination can be made in 
favour of one individual only. Nomination so made can be cancelled 
or changed by the account holder/(s) any time. 
b. In case of depositors putting his/her thumb impressions on the 
prescribed Forms for making nomination, cancellation or change 
Page 11 of 59 
/M) d'ili 3/mi il"lfri:T ~ Bank of Baroda 
g .... 1j,fW4iM 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
thereof, the form is required to be attested by two witnesses. 
Nomination can be made in favour of a minor also. 
c. Printing of name of Nominee is available in the Passbook/Term Deposit 
advices/Statement of accou nts, if a customer opts for this. 
d. Nomination facility is available for joint deposit accounts with operating 
instructions as 'E' or 'S' also. In the case of joint accounts, the 
nominee's right arises only after the death of all the depositors. Bank 
recommends that all depositors avail of the nomination facility for 
smooth settlement of claim by the legal heirs in unforeseen 
circumstances. The nominee, in the event of death of the depositor/s 
would receive the balance outstanding in the account as a trustee of 
legal heirs. 
e. Bank recommends that all depositors avail Nomination facility. If 
depositors do not want to give nomination, they will give in writing that 
they do not want nomination in the account. The depositor will be 
informed of the advantages of the nomination facility while opening a 
deposit account. 
f. An acknowledgment of Nomination details will be issued to the 
depositor/s on request. 
3.6 Minor's Accounts: 
The minor can open Savings Bank Account and the same can be operated by 
the natural guardian or by minor himself/ herself, if he/she is above the age of 
10 years provided the minor should be able to read and write and be capable 
in the opinion of Branch Manager/ Joint Manager of understanding what he 
/she does. However, no cheque books will be issued and no overdraft /loan 
will be granted to such Minor Accounts. 
a. The account can also be opened jointly with natural guardian / Legal 
guardian (appointed by the Court) or with mother as the guardian. 
b. On attaining majority, the erstwhile minor should confirm the balance in 
his/her account and if the account is operated by the natural guardian, 
fresh specimen signature and the photograph of erstwhile minor duly 
verified by the natural guardian would be obtained and kept on record 
for all operational purposes. Cheques issued by the guardian prior to 
the date of minor becomes major but presented after the minor 
becomes major would require confirmation from the minor. 
C. Time Deposits account may also be opened in name of minors. 
II 
\i • 
Page 12 of 59 
.) dcfi 3ll!li ~ ~ Banko/Baroda 
g '.';.::; 1jifM§M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
d. Minors can open account through BC points under Financial Inclusion 
Scheme. 
3.7 Account of Illiterate/Blind Person: 
The Bank may at its discretion open deposit accounts other than Current 
Accounts of illiterate/blind person. The account of such person may be opened 
provided he/she calls on the Bank personally along with a witness who is 
known to both the depositor and the Bank .. The Bank will explain the need for 
proper care and safe keeping of the passbook etc. given to the account holder. 
The Bank official shall explain the Terms and Conditions governing the 
account to the illiterate/blind person. 
Bank shall invariably be offering all the banking facilities such as cheque book 
facility including third party cheques, ATM facility, Net banking facility, locker 
facility, retail loans, credit cards etc. to the visually challenged without any 
discrimination and all possible assistance shall be rendered to these persons 
for availing the facilities. 
Joint account of an illiterate can be opened with a literate close relative i.e. 
father, son, husband, wife, mother and daughter but not with two cousins. 
Joint account of two or more illiterates can be opened on following terms and 
conditions All the joint account holders should be close relatives i.e. spouse, 
children, parents, brothers and unmarried sisters. - Not cousins. The 
operations in the a ccount should be allowed jointly by all account holders, 
survivors or survivor. No cheque book facility should be provided in case of 
illiterate account and all the account holders should come personally to the 
branch for withdrawals. 
Account of Transgender Persons: 
Transgender persons can decide their self-identified gender such as male, 
female or third gender, which h as been made available 1n all 
forms/applications etc. 
All transgender customers shall be treated equally to other male/female 
customers without any discrimination. 
3.8 Transfer of Account: 
The deposit accounts may be transferred to any other branch of the Bank at 
the request of the depositor. The account number will continue to be same. 
3.9 Account Statement: 
A statement of account will be provided by the Bank to Savings Bank as well 
as Current Depos it Account Holders periodically as per Terms and Conditions 
of opening of the account. Alternatively, the Bank provides facility of Pass 
Book also. 
Page 13 of 59 
,.} tki, 3ll!li iJdTi:r ~ Bank of Baroda 
g '.: .. li<F.Wi#M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
3.10 Interest Payment: 
Interest on Savings is calculated on d aily product basis (interest applied on the en d of 
day balance) at the rates specified by the Bank taking into account the overall 
guidelines issued by Reserve Bank of India from time to time. The rates shall not be 
subject to negotiation between the depositor and the Bank. A uniform interest rate 
shall be set on balance up to Rupees one lakh, irrespective of the amount in the 
savings account within this limit. Differential rates of interest may be provided for any 
end-of-day savings bank balance exceeding Rupees one lakh. 
In accordance with latest guidelines issued by RBI (dated 03rd March) 2016 ,Bank 
has decided to change the periodicity of interest on Rupee Savings Bank accounts 
,including N RE/NRO SB accounts from half yearly to quarterly W.e.f 1st of April 2016. 
Presently Interest for the period February to April will be credited in May, Interest for 
May to July will be credited in August, interest for August to October will be credited 
in November and interest for November to January will be credited in February every 
year. 
No interest shall be paid on deposits held in current accounts. Provided that balances 
lying in current account standing in the name of a deceased individual depositor or 
sole proprietorship concern shall attract interest from the date of death of the 
depositor till the date of repayment to the claimant/s at the rate of interest applicable 
to savings deposit as on the date of payment. 
The interest rates offered shall be reasonable, consistent, transparent and available 
for supervisory review/scrutiny as and when required. 
Rate of interest will be prominently displayed in Branch Premises . The latest rate of 
interest is being displayed on Bank's website as and when there is a change. 
3.11 Debit Card Hot Listing: 
The Bank will accept ATM Card / Debit Card hot listing instructions from 
customers through Digital Mode, Customer Care Phone Banking channel - 24 
hours a day and from branch channel during Business hours. Phone Banking 
numbers are made available to customers whenever a Card is issued and all 
branches contain a detailed leaflet along with the Phone Banking numbers. 
3.12 Stop Payment Facility: 
The Bank will accept stop payment instruction from the depositors in respect of 
cheques issued by them. Charges, as specified, will be recovered. 
Page 14 of 59 
•~ tJ'ili 3ll!li ~ ~ Bank of Baroda a .... 1hMM 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
3.13 Dormant Accounts/Inoperative Accounts: 
As per extant Reserve Bank of India (RBI) guidelines, an account would be 
treated as inoperative / dormant if there are no customer induced transactions 
in the account for over a period of two years. The status of account is changed 
to dormant in the system in the interest of the depositor as well as the Bank. If 
there is no operation in the a ccount for one year the account is treated as 
potentially dormant account and the depositor will be informed to operate the 
said account to prevent such account from becoming dormant. Operation in 
dormant accounts would be resumed / restarted /allowed after obtaining the 
revised KYC document as per the extant guidelines of the Bank. However, it 
will be ensured that the customer is not inconvenienced in any manner as a 
result of extra care taken. The depositor will be informed of charges, if any, 
which the Bank will levy on dormant account. 
For further guidelines and clarification, Policy on Ino perative Accounts and 
Unclaimed Deposits can be referred, which is available on Bank's website. 
3.14 Unclaimed Account/Deposit: 
An Account / Deposit would be treated as unclaimed if it is inoperative for 10 
Years or more. A list of such accounts / deposits shall be displayed on the 
Website of the Bank. The list so displayed on the Bank's website shall contain 
only the names of the account holder(s) and his/ her/ their address. 
Such Unclaimed account would be transferred to a separate account status in 
the interest of the depositor and the Bank. No charges would be levied by the 
Bank for migrating an account from Dormant/ unclaimed to Operative account. 
RBI has established "Depositors Education and Awareness Fund (DEAF- 
2014)" under Section 26 of Banking Regulation Act 1949, where all the credit 
balance lying in the unclaimed accounts required to be transferred. The Bank 
is liable to pay the amount to the depositor/claimant and claim refund o f such 
amount from the Fund. 
For further guidelines and clarification, Policy on Inoperative Accounts and 
Unclaimed Deposits can be referred, which is available on Bank's website. 
Page 15 of 59 
!M) iii; 3ll!li fEll;l ~ Bank of Baroda 
g .... tj,fli%M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
4. TERM DEPOSIT 
4.1 Term Deposits, also known as Fixed Deposits or Time Deposits, are deposits 
accepted by the Bank for fixed period and are repayable on expiry of the fixed 
period. Interest is paid at quarterly rests to the depositor or compounded 
quarterly. At the specific request of the depositor, interest could be paid at 
monthly rests also, but at a discounted rate. 
Tenor:- 
Bank shall have the freedom to determine the maturity/tenor of the deposit 
subject to the condition that minimum tenor of Term Depos its shall be seven 
days. Our Bank is accepting Deposits for a minimum period of -7- days and 
maximum period of 10 Years (except in case of MACT deposit or directed by a 
court of law or tribunal). 
Types of Term Deposit: 
a) Fixed Deposit- Interest is periodically paid out-Deposits can be 
accepted for a period as prescribed by RBI from time to time. Interest 
shall be payable Quarterly I Monthly (at discou nted rate).lnterest may 
be paid by cash (subject to certain conditions of Income Tax Act, 1961) 
or credited to op erative account or by issuance of PO/DD. 
b) Cumulative Term D eposit -Interest accumulated on quarterly 
compounding basis: - Deposits can be accepted for a period as 
prescribed by RBI from time t o time. Interest is calculated on quarterly 
compounding basis. Interest on cumulative deposits is deemed as 
reinvested. No interest outflow is allowed under this scheme till the 
maturity of the Term Deposit. 
c) Flexi Fixed Deposit (FFD) - Selective schemes of Savings and 
Current Accounts have facility of Auto Sweep where balances above a 
certain threshold are swept out to Flexi Deposits in multiples of a sweep 
out amount (Threshold amount, Sweep out amount and deposit period 
are scheme specific). Whenever the balance in a savings/current 
account fall short below ( stipulated balance requirement ) to clear any 
debits in the operative account, the FFD can be broken in last In first 
Out (LIFO) principle (in multiples of sweep out amount specific to 
scheme) as per the set process of the Bank. 
d) Tax Savings Term Deposit - is a Term Deposit wherein the customer 
gets a Tax benefit under section 80 C Income Tax Act 1961 on the 
amount invested, although the interest paid on these deposits is 
taxable. Depos it can be made under RIRD/MIP/QIP Scheme. The 
Page 16 of 59 
aJ tm 3ll!{i i/l/ii:r ~ Bank of Baroda 
g :::;; !HM- 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
deposit will be for a period of 5 years. Premature payment of Tax 
Savings Term Deposit is not permitted except in case of death of the 
depositor. 
e) Non-Callable Deposit- 
a) As per Direction of RBI Bank can pay differential rate of interest on term 
deposit above Rs.1.00 crore an d without premature withdrawal option. 
b) In light of above direction Bank has made Non-callable Deposit where 
minimum deposit above Rs.1.00 crore with additional interest revised from 
time to time and without premature option. 
c) In exceptional condition premature withdrawal permission may be granted by 
respective Zonal Head. Zonal Head will assess the exceptional condition and 
after satisfying with the reason, can allow. Exceptional Conditions are: 
a. Branch made deposit erroneously. 
b. Non-Callable auto renewed in Non-Callable scheme 
c. Customer wanted modification within 15 days of making of Non- callable 
Depos it 
d. Customer's Death. 
e. Non- callable Depos it held in the name of Govt Bodies. 
d) In case of Premature Withdrawal, the rate applicable to Non- Callable shall not 
be applicable an d the deposit will be treated as Callable Term Deposit. Further 
2% Penal Interest on callable deposit rate will be applicable for premature 
payment of deposits (i.e. the date of contract) for period for which the deposit 
has actually remained with the Bank or the Contracted Rate whichever is 
lower. Penalty will be not applicable in case of error made by the branch. 
f) Deposit under Capital Gains Accounts Scheme, 1988- The Bank is 
authorized to a ccept deposits under the Capital Gains Accounts Scheme 
(CGAS), 1988 by CBDT, Department of Revenue, Ministry of Finance, GOI. 
Long Term Capital Gains arising on transfer of capital assets, is not 
chargeable to tax if the amount of capital gain or net consideration has been 
utilized for specified purposes within the stipulated period as laid down under 
the Income tax Act. No additional interest for staff and Senior Citizen is 
applicable under this scheme. 
g) Tender Deposit, Guarantee money, Deposit of the amount of 
compensation etc. awarded by the Claims Tribunal etc. will be issued in 
the name of the "Government Department - Account name of the Depositor" 
after obtaining application form, along with a letter from the depositor to the 
Page 17 of 59 
!OP) 1$ 3ll!li ~ ~ Bank of Baroda 
g :::: IHMBM 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
effect that the Deposit in question is taken as a security for due performance 
of his contract with the concerned government department and that the 
deposit might be held, renewed or released according to the instructions of 
the concerned department Deposit receipt are delivered with a covering 
letter stating the party's (applicant's) name on whose account, it has been 
issued. 
Deposits can also be accepted in respect of the awards 
Accident Claims Tribunal. The interest on such deposits 
directly to the claimant or his guardian as the case may 
advance will be granted without the express permission 
Tribunal which ordered the deposit. 
h) Call Deposits to Contractors :Deposit at call receipts can be issued as a 
special case , to the contractors (tenderers) for amounts earmarked against 
the earnest money held in current account with them, for submission to 
Government Departments with tender papers relating to construction contract 
as per Government or Local Bodies requirements, with the permission of 
Competent authorities. made by Motor 
should be paid 
be. No loan or 
of the court I 
4.2 Interest Payment: 
Bank shall have the freedom to determine the maturity/tenor of the deposit subject 
to the condition that minimum tenor of the deposit offered shall be seven days. 
Differential interest rate shall be offered only on bulk deposits. 
Provided that differential interest shall not be applicable on deposit schemes 
framed on the basis of the Bank Term Deposit Scheme, 2006 or the deposits 
received under the Capital Gains Accounts Scheme, 1988. 
Bank shall have the freedom to offer term deposits without premature withdrawal 
Option: 
Provided that all term deposits accepte d from individuals (held singly or jointly) 
for amount of Rupees one crore and below shall have premature-withdrawal­ 
facility. 
The interest rates applicable on term deposits withdrawn before the maturity 
date shall be as under: 
1. Interest shall be paid at the rate applicable to the amount and pe riod for 
which the deposit remained with the bank and not at the contracted rate. 
2. No interest shall be paid, where premature withdrawal of deposits takes 
place before completion of the minimum period i.e., 7 d ays. 
a. In terms of Reserve Bank of India directives, interest shall be calculated 
at quarterly compounding intervals on Term Deposits and paid at the 
rate decided by the Bank depending upon the period of deposits. In 
case of Monthly Deposit Scheme, the interest shall be calculated for the 
quarter on compounding basis and paid monthly at discounted value. 
I , ~,i j"'-~ f"$?-' ;\.~. 
I •• 
Page 18 of 59 
!M) tJcti 3ll!li ildll:r ~ Bank of Baroda 
g ~= IH# 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
The interest on Term deposits is calculated by the Bank in accordance 
with the formulae a nd conventions advised by Indian Banks' 
Association. 
Accordingly, Bank has adopted following methodology. 
"In all cases of Domestic Term Deposits ( period of deposit more 
than a year) where the terminal quarter is incomplete, interest 
should be calculated for complete quarter and the actual number 
of days, reckoning the year 365/366 days viz the calculation of 
interest on such deposits should be in order of completed qu arters 
and days." 
i. Deposit placed for more than two quarters/six months but less than one 
year interest will be calculated first for completed quarters and for 
terminal incomplete qu arter, actual number of days reckoning the year 
at 365/366 days. Interest will be calculated and compounded at 
quarterly rests. 
11. The Maturity Amount mentioned in the receipt is calculated without 
giving TDS effect. While calculating interest for half year(Quarterly 
compounded), the interest calculated for previous half year (quarterly 
compounded) minus TDS will be added to principal amount for 
calculating interest for current Half Year. 
iii. Depos it placed for more than one quarter/3 months to less than or equal 
to 181 days/6 months interest will be calculated first for completed 
quarter and thereafter for actual number of days if terminal quarter is 
incomplete reckoning year at 365/366 days. While calculating interest 
for days the interest calculated for quarter will be added to principal 
amount for calculating interest for remaining days of terminal quarter. 
iv. Deposit placed for period less than one quarter/3 months interest will be 
calculated for the actual number of days on the basis of 365/366 days in 
a year. 
b. Interest rates on NRE/ NRO deposits shall not be higher than those 
offered by the bank on comparable domestic rupee term deposits. 
c. The interest on FCNR (B) deposits shall be paid at the rates calculated 
in accordance with the ba sis prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India 
(RBI) from time to time for various maturities. The FCNR (B) interest 
rates shall not be subject to negotiation between the depositors and the 
bank. Interest on the FCNR (B) deposits accepted under the scheme 
p~ 
Page 19 of 59 
!M) tJcTi 3ll!li ~ ~ Bank of Baroda a::::: : 11+MM 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023 -26 
4.3 shall be calculated on the basis of 360 days to a year. The interest on 
FCNR (B) depos its shall be calculated and paid at intervals of 180 days 
each and thereafter for the remaining actual number of days. The FCNR 
(B) interest rates offered shall be reasonable, consistent, transparent 
and available for supervisory review/scrutiny as and when required. All 
transac tions, involving payment of interest on FCNR (B) deposits shall 
be rounded off to two decimal places. 
d. The rate of interest on deposits will be prominently displayed in the branch 
premises and also on the Bank's official website. Changes, if any, with 
regard to the deposit schemes and other related services shall also be 
communicated upfront by way of public notice and/or/on Bank's website 
and shall be prominently displayed. Interest is subject to TDS as per 
prevailing guidelines 
e. All interest payments will be rounded off to the nearest rupee. 
f. The Term Deposit account holders at the time of placing their deposits can 
give instructions with regard to closure of Depos it accou nt or renewal of 
deposit for further period on the date of maturity. In absence of such 
mandate, the Bank will automatically renew the deposit as under. 
" If Deposit is placed for more than one year it will be automatically 
renewed for one year at the prevailing rate on due date. " If Deposit is placed for less than one year it will be automatically 
renewed for same period at the prevailing rate on due date. 
In case, the customer wishes to make changes in the tenure or wants 
premature proceeds of the Term deposit, the same is allowed at the 
written request of the customer. In case of deposits under callable 
scheme premature withdrawal of bulk deposit is done as per Bank's 
discretion. 
g. Floating rate domestic term deposits Floating rate domestic term 
deposits shall be linked to a directly observable an d transparent market 
determined external benchmark. 
Premature Withdrawal of Callable Term Deposit: 
The Bank, on request from the depositor, at its discretion may allow withdrawal 
of Callable Term deposit before completion of the period of the Deposit agreed 
upon at the time of placing the deposit. The Bank shall declare their penal 
interest rates, policy for premature withdrawal of Term Deposit from time to 
time. The components of penalty shall be clearly brought to the notice of the 
Page 20 of 59 
Im) tifi 3ll!li ~ ~ Bank of Baroda a=: il1FMBM 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
depos itors at the time of acceptance of deposits and if not, no penalty shall be 
levied. 
Penal Interest Rate Policy for premature withdrawal of Term Deposit is as 
under: 
a) No penalty for prepayment of deposit upto 5 lacs which remained with the 
Bank for a minimum period of 12 months. In such cases the rate of interest 
applicable for premature payment without penalty will be rate ruling on the 
date of accepting of deposits (i.e. the date of contract) for period for which the 
deposit has actually remained with the Bank or the Contracted Rate 
whichever is lower. 
b) For premature withdrawal of all deposits which have remained for less than 
12 months and also all deposits of the face value exceeding Rs 5 lacs, 
interest will be paid one percent less than the rate which was applicable at 
the time of placing the Deposit for the period for which the deposit has 
actually run or contracted rate whichever is lower .. 
c) Penalty is waived on settlement of claims in the deceased depositor's 
accounts and accounts with two or more joint depos itors where one of the 
depositor has died, Interest is paid at applicable rate. 
d) In case of splitting of the amount of term deposit at the request from the claimant/s 
of deceased depositors or Joint account holders, no penalty for premature 
withdrawal of the term deposit shall be levied if the period and ag gregate amount 
of the deposit do not undergo any change. 
e) Penalty for prepayment of Term deposit for Rs One Crore and above (for any 
period) will be allowed as per the discretion of Bank and after obtaining prior 
approval from the Regional Authorities. In case of premature payment of 
deposits for Rs.1 Crore and above the following conditions will have to be 
complied with: 
i) A penalty on premature close of deposit for Rs.1 Crore and 
above will be levied 1.5% from the applicable rate of interest for 
which the deposit has remained with the Bank. 
ii) The customer has to give a withdrawal notice of minimum 31 
days prior to withdrawal of deposits except Flexi Fixed Deposit 
and deposits for the period up to 31 days. 
iii) However, the customer will have the window of 14 days from 
date of opening of FD or Renewal of FD for relook. The condition 
of 31 days' notice will not be applicable during window of relook. 
He will be allowed to premature close the deposit within 14 days 
from the date of issue but interest will not be payable if deposit 
prematurely paid within for 7 days. If the depos it is withdrawn 
after 7 days, interest will be paid for the period it remains with the 
=' l 
Page 21 of 59 
•)tJ'il,3ifm~ ~ Bank of Ba;oda 
(;I ..... 1j,fW#M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
Bank. The applicable rate of interest will be prevailing card rate 
as on date of deposit or renewal of deposit minus 1.5% penalty. 
After 14 days the Regional authority has power to take decision 
to allow the premature closure of the account subject to 
application of penalty of 1.5% for the applicable rate. 
In normal circumstances premature closure of a joint deposits shall be 
permitted only if all the deposit holders sign a request to that effect. In the case 
of Term deposits with operating instructions Either Or Survivor, Former Or 
Survivor, Latter Or Survivor and Anyone Or Survivor and in the event of death 
of one of the joint holders, in the ab sence of relevant mandate, premature 
closure of such deposit will be allowed only if the legal heirs of the deceased 
agree for such premature closure. In cases where relevant mandate is 
available with the Bank, premature closure of such deposits shall be allowed in 
the favor of survivors. 
In compliance with RBI directives, no interest is payable on pre-mature closure 
of NRE & FCNR term deposits if the deposit remained with the bank for less 
than a year. 
4.4 Renewal of Term Deposit before Maturity: 
In case of callable deposits if the depositor desires to renew the deposit by 
seeking premature closure of an existing Term Deposit account, the Bank will 
permit the renewal at the applicable rate on the date of renewal, provided the 
deposit is renewed for a period longer than the balance period of the original 
deposit. While prematurely closing a deposit for the purpose of renewal, 
interest on the deposit for the period it has remained with the Bank will be paid 
at the rate applicable to the period for which the deposit remained with the 
Bank and not at the contracted rate without penalty. 
4.5 Renewal of Overdue Term Deposit: 
As per the Bank's policy and RBI guidelines issued vide RBl/2021-22/66 DoR. 
SPE.REC.29/13.03.00/2021-22 DATED- 02-07-21, if a Term Deposit (TD) matures 
and proceeds are unpaid, the amount left unclaimed with the bank shall attract rate of 
interest as under: 
1. Whenever an overdue deposit is presented for renewal within 14 days of its 
maturity, the deposit will be renewed with effect from the date of maturity at 
interest rate applicable as on the due date. 
2. Whenever an overdue deposit is presented for renewal after 14 days from its 
maturity, interest for the overdue period is to be paid as under: 
• The interest for the overdue period is to be calculated as per the interest 
rate applicable to savings account or the contracted rate of interest on 
the ma tured TD, whichever is lower and interest will be add ed to the -~ 
Page 22 of 59 
•) tiff 3ll!li ifdll:T ~ Bank of Baroda 
g ::;::: I hf W#M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
original maturity amount and new fixed deposit will be created with 
interest rate applicable as on the presentment date. 
3. When the overdue deposit is presented for encashment, the amount left 
unclaimed with the bank shall attract rate of interest as applicable to savings 
account or the contracted rate of interest on the matured TD, whichever is 
lower. 
4.6 Advances against Deposit: 
The Bank may consider request of the depositor/s for loan I overdraft facility 
against Term Deposits duly discharged by the depositor/s on execution of 
neces sary security documents. The Bank may also consider loan against 
deposit standing in the name of minor jointly with guardian however, a 
suitable declaration stating that loan is for the benefit of the minor, is to be 
furnished by the depositor - applicant. 
No Loan facility shall be allowed to HUF and Minor in sole name. 
4.7 Settlement of Dues in Deceased Deposit Account: 
If the depos itor has registered nomination with the Bank, the balance 
outstanding in the account of the deceased depositor will be transferred to the 
account of nominee after the Bank is satisfied about the identity of the 
nominee etc. Payment is made to nominee as representative of legal heirs. 
The above procedure will be followed even in respect of a joint account where 
nomination is registered with the Bank. 
In a Joint Deposit Account, when one of the joint account holders dies, the 
Bank is required to ma ke payment jointly to the legal heirs of the deceased 
person and the surviving depositor(s). However, if the joint account holders 
had given mandate for dispos al of the balance in the account in the forms such 
as "either or survivor, former / latter or survivor, anyone of survivors or 
survivor; etc., the payment will be made as per the mandate to avoid delays in 
production of legal papers by the heirs of the deceased. 
In a Term Deposit account held in joint names if operating instructions is 
"either or survivor", "Former or survivor" when one of the depositor dies, the 
payment will be made to survivor on maturity. If prepayment is demanded, it 
will be allowed on ly after obtaining consent of legal heirs of the deceased. 
In the absence of nomination and when there are no disputes among the 
claimants, the Bank will pay the amount outstanding in the account of 
deceased person against joint application and indemnity by all legal heirs or 
the person mandated by the legal heirs to receive the payment on their behalf 1~ ,r v ; ~:~ -~, 
Page 23 of 59 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
4.8 
4.9 without insisting on legal documents up to the limit approved by the Bank's 
Board. This is to ensure that the common depositors are not put hardship 
on account of delays in completing legal formalities. 
Interest Payable on Term Deposit in Deceased Account: 
In the event of death of the depositor before the date of maturity of Deposit 
and amount of the deposit is claimed after the date of maturity, the Bank shall 
pay interest at the contracted rate till the date of maturity. From the date of 
maturity till the date of payment, the Bank shall pay simple interest at the 
applicable rate as on the date of maturity, for the period for which the deposit 
remained with the Bank beyond the date of maturity, as per the Bank's policy 
in this regard. 
However, in the case of death of the depositor after the date of maturity of the 
overdue deposit, the Bank shall pay interest at Savings Bank Deposit rate 
applicable on the date of maturity from the date of maturity till the date of 
payment. 
(Detailed guidelines/process for settlement of claims of deceased depositor is 
available on Bank's Website) 
Insurance Cover for Deposit: 
All Bank deposits are covered under the insurance scheme offered by Deposit 
Insurance an d Credit Guarantee Corporation of India (DICGC) subject to 
certain limits and conditions as under: 
"Each depositor in a b ank is insured upto a maximum of 5,00,000 (Rupees 
Five Lakhs) presently for both principal and interest amount held by him in the 
same right and same capacity as on the date of liquidation/cancellation of 
bank's license o r the date on which the scheme of 
amalgamation/merger/reconstruction comes into force." 
The DICGC insures all deposits such as savings, fixed, current, recurring, etc. 
deposits except the following types of deposits: 
1. Deposits of foreign Governments; 
2. Deposits of Central/State Governments; 
3. Inter-bank deposits; 
4. Deposits of the State Land Development Bank with the State co­ 
operative Bank; 
5. Any amount due on account of and deposit received outside India 
6. Any amount, which has been specifically exempted by the corporation 
with the previous approval of Reserve Bank of India 
Page 24 of 59 
•)l'ili3/fr.li~ ~ Bank of Baroda a = lltfW 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
CHAPTER - II 
5. ACCOUNTS RELATED TO NON- RESIDENT INDIAN, PIO AND 
OCI: 
5.1 General information/ Definition under FEMA: 
1) "NRE account" means a Non-resident External deposit account referred to in 
Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2000 , as amended 
from time to time. 
2) "NRO accou nt" means a Non-resident ordinary deposit account referred to in 
Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2000, as amended 
from time to time. 
3) "FCNR(B) account" means a Foreign Currency Non-Resident (Bank) account 
referred to in Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2000, as 
amended from time to time. 
4) According to the regulations, a "Foreign Currency Account" means an account 
held or maintained in currency other than the currency of India or Nepal or 
Bhutan 
5) 'Deposit' includes deposit of money with a Bank, company, proprietary 
concern, partnership firm, corporate body, trust or any other person; 
6) "Bulk Depos it" means single Rupee term deposits of Rs. 2 Crore and above; 
7) "Notice deposit" means term deposit for specific period but withdrawable on 
giving at least one complete Banking days' notice; 
8) "RFC account" means a Resident Foreign Currency accou nt referred to in 
Foreign Exchange Management (Foreign currency accounts by a person 
resident in India) Regulations, 2000, as amended from time to time. 
5.2 Non- Resident Indian : 
Non-Resident Indian (NRI)' is defined under FEMA as a person resident 
outside India, who is either a citizen of India or is a person of Indian origin. 
Person Resident of India: 
According to Sec 2(v) of FEMA, 1999, a person resident of India is defined as­ 
(i) a person residing in India for more than one hundred and eighty-two days 
during the course of the preceding financial year but does not include - 
A. a person who has gone out of India or who stays outside India, in either 
case 
a) for or on taking up employment outside India, or /~ 'j '\~ 
(! ,I -: .., ~ 
r \pf·-- :1 1_;1· )iiiti:s 
Page 25 of 59 
,.) tel; 3ll!li ildii:r ~ Bank of Baroda 
g ..... I i•EIC#W 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
b) for carrying on outside India a business or vocation outside India, 
or 
c) for any other purpose, in such circumstances as would indicate 
his intention to stay outside India for an uncertain period; 
B. a person who has come to or stays in India, in either case, otherwise 
than - 
a) for or on taking up employment in India, or 
b) for carrying on in India a business or vocation in India, or 
c) for any other purpose, in such circumstances as would indicate 
his intention to stay in India for an uncertain period; 
5.3 'Person Of Indian Origin: 
'Person of Indian Origin (PIO)' is a person resident outside India who is a 
Citizen of any country other than Bangladesh or Pakistan or such other country 
as may be specified by the Central Government, satisfying the following 
conditions: 
a) Who was a citizen of India by virtue of the Constitution of India or the 
Citizenship Act, 1955 (57 of 1955); or 
b) Who belonged to a territory that became part of India after the 15th day of 
August, 1947; or 
c) Who is a child or a grandchild or a great grandchild of a citizen of India or of a 
person referred to in clause (a) or (b); or 
d) Who is a spouse of foreign origin of a citizen of India or spouse of foreign 
origin of a person referred to in clause (a) or (b) or (c) 
5.4(a) For Overseas Corporate Bodies (OCB) Accounts: 
As per RBI Circular no A.P.(DIR Series ) Circular No.14 (Sep 16, 2003), 
Overseas Corporate Bodies (OCBs) were derecognised in India as an eligible 
'class of investor'. 
Under the abo ve regulation, OCBs shall not open and maintain Non-Resident 
(External) Rupee Account (NRE), Foreign Currency (Non-Resident) Account 
(Bank) [FCNR(B)] Accounts and Non-Resident Ordinary Rupee (NRO) Deposit 
Account with authorised Bank in India and all existing NRE (Savings, Current) 
Accounts of the OCBs shall be closed forthwith and balances repatriated 
except where instructions have been given by the RBI not to allow operations 
in the accounts of specific OCBs without prior permission of RBI and such 
account shall continue to be operative. The existing NRE Deposits (Recurring 
or Fixed), FCNR (B) Accounts and Non-Resident Ordinary Rupee (NRO) 
I ~ 
Page 26 of 59 
•) tifi 3ll!li ~ ~ Bank of Baroda 
a : 1HMHM 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
Depos it (Recurring or Fixed) Account may be permitted to continue till original 
maturity. The ma turity proceeds of NRE Deposits and FCNR (B) shall be 
repatriated expeditiously and no new NRE / FCNR / NRO Accounts in the 
name of OCBs shall be renewed. 
Further, as per RBI Notification No. FEMA 101 /2003-RB dated 03/10/2003, an 
existing NRO (Saving) Account held or maintained in the name of an OCB 
shall be closed and balances transferred to non-interest bearing NRO 
(Current) Account. The disposal of balances in such NRO (Current) account 
shall require specific approval of the Reserve Bank except in the following 
cases: 
i) all local payments in rupees 
ii) remittance outside India of current income in India of the account holder net 
of applicable taxes 
Any loan or other facility granted against the security of a Recurring/Fixed 
Deposit Account held in the name of an OCB, shall not be renewed and shall 
be closed by adjustment of the proceeds on maturity of the deposit. 
In terms of AP (DIR Series) Circular No.13 dated November 29, 2001, the ban 
imposed on OCBs under PIS will continue. However, they shall continue to 
hold the shares and convertible debentures purchased under PIS till such time 
these are sold on Stock Exchange in India. 
(b) Overseas Citizenship of India (OCI) commonly known as 'Dual 
Citizenship': 
A fo reign national, who was eligible to become a citizen of India on 
06.01 .1950** or was a citizen of India on or at any time after 26.01.1950 or 
belonged to a territory that became part of India after 15.08.1947 a nd his/her 
children and grandchildren, provided his/her country of citizenship allows dual 
citizenship in some form or other under the local laws, is eligible for registration 
as an Overseas Citizen of India (OCI). 
Minor children of such person are also eligible for OCI. However, if the 
applicant had ever been a citizen of Pakistan or Bangladesh, he/she will 
not be eligible for OCI. 
The OCI can open all types of accounts viz (NRE, FCNR (B), NRO).Please 
see the relevant regulation below. 
Explanation: for the purpose of this sub-regulation, the expression 
'Person of Indian Origin' includes an 'Overseas Citizen of India' 
cardholder within the meaning of Section 7(A) of the Citizenship Act, 
C'u- ':;\'~ !) ,,. 
"(j t ~ h 
, , • .' liabilit,o, ) 
\· .. t':0.. 
\. ,.,..! .... 
Page 27 of 59 
~) lfm 3ll!li iJdTc:T ~ Bank of Baroda 
g .... li•>M#M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023 -26 
1955. (Read with https://www .mha.gov.in/PDF_Other/Merge_PIO_OCl.pdf 
dated 09/01/2015) 
As can be seen the PIO includes OCI cardholder as per the regulation. 
Therefore, the OCI can open all the three types of accounts in India. 
5.5 G eneral Guidelines: 
a) Only External source of funds can be credited to NRE/ FCNR / RFC/ EEFC 
Accounts. 
b) Residents cannot open Non-Resident and Non-Residents cannot open 
Resident Accounts. 
c) The NRls and PIOs, includes OCI cardholder, can open all the three types of 
accounts- NRO, NRE & FCNR (B)- in India. 
d) NRE, NRO and FCNR accounts may be held jointly in the names of two or 
more NRls/ PIOs. 
e) Non-Resident Indians may be allowed to op en joint account with Resident on 
FORMER or SURVIVOUR basis and Resident Indian may also be allowed to 
open joint account with NRls on FORMER or SURVIVOUR basis, with close 
relatives as defined in regulation 6 of Companies Act 2013. 
f) The Non-Resident status should be continuously checked and ensured. When 
a Resident person becomes Non-Resident, his/ her existing Resident Account 
shall be designated as NRO Ale. 
g) Non-Resident accounts (NRO/ NRE/ FCNR,) can be maintained in the name(s) 
of individuals with Indian Nationality/Origin. 
h) The Non-Residents with foreign nationality and Non-Indian Origin are also 
eligible to open and maintain NRO accounts in India. 
i) Individual/e ntities of Pakistan and Bangladesh shall requires prior approval of 
the Reserve Bank of India for opening N RE and FCNR (B) account. 
Individuals/ entities of Pakistan nationality/ origin and entities of Bangladesh 
origin require the prior approval of the Reserve Bank of India for opening NRO 
account. 
j) A Citizen of Bangladesh/Pakistan belonging to minority communities in those 
countries i.e. Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians residing in 
Page 28 of 59 
•) iifi 3ll!fi ~ ~ Bank of Baroda a =. 11LW 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
India and who has been granted LTV or whose application for LTV is under 
consideration, can open only one NRO account with an AD bank subject to the 
conditions mentioned in Notification No. FEMA 5(R)/2016-RB dated April 01, 
2016, as updated from time to time. The opening of such NRO accounts will be 
subject to reporting of the details of the accounts opened by the concerned 
Authorised bank, to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on a quarterly basis as 
instructed vide AP {DIR Series) Circular No. 28 dated March 28, 2019. 
k) Individuals of Bangladesh nationality can open an NRO account subject to t he 
individual(s) holding a valid visa and valid residential permit issued by 
Foreigner Registration Office (FRO)/ Foreigner Regional Registration Office 
(FRRO) concerned. 
I) An NRO (current/ savings) accou nt can be opened by a foreign national of 
non-Indian origin visiting India, with funds remitted from outside India through 
banking channel or by sale of foreign exchange brought by him to India. The 
balance in the NRO account may be paid to the account holder at the time of 
his departure from India provided the account has been maintained for a 
period not exceeding six months and the account has not been credited with 
any local funds, other than interest accrued thereon. 
m) Income e arned in the NRE and FCNR (B) accounts is exempt from income 
tax and income earned in NRO account is taxable. 
n) If an NRE account holder, immediately on return to India, requests for 
conversion of the NRE term deposit into Resident Foreign Currency Account 
(RFC), interest shall be paid as under - 
(i) if the NRE deposit has not run for a minimum period of one year, 
interest shall be paid at a rate not exceeding the rate payable on 
savings deposits held in RFC accounts 
(ii) In all other cases, interest shall be paid at the contracted rate. 
o) NRE accou nts should be designated as resident accounts or the funds held in 
these accounts may be transferred to the RFC accounts, at the option of the 
account holder, immediately upon the return of the account holder to India for 
taking up employment or on change in the residential status. 
p) On change in residential status, FCNR (B) deposits may be allowed to 
continue till maturity at the contracted rate of interest, if so desired by the 
account holder. Bank should convert the FCNR (B) deposits on maturity into 
resident rupee deposit accou nts or RFC account (if the depositor is eligible to 
open RFC account), at the option of the account holder. 
Page 29 of 59 
/M)ti'm3lllli~ ~ Bank of Ba;oda 
g :... 11,fJC§!M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
q) NRO accounts may be designated as resident accounts on the return of the 
account holder to India for any purpose indicating his intention to stay in India 
for an uncertain period. Likewise, when a resident Indian becomes a person 
resident outside India, his existing resident account should be designated a s 
NRO account. 
r) Persons resident in Nepal and Bhutan can o pen Indian rupee accounts with an 
authorised Bank in India. 
s) Balances in NRE and FCNR (B) accounts are fully repatriable. Balances in 
NRO account of NRls/ PIOs can be remitted up to USO 1 (one) million per 
financial year (April-March) along with their other eligible assets. 
t) Passport should be ob tained to open an account. The signature on the 
account opening form for operations may be the same o r different from that is 
available on the passport. 
u) Bank shall not mark any type of lien, direct or indirect, against NRE 
Deposits. Saving 
v) When a person resident in India leaves country (other than Nepal or Bhutan) 
for taking up employment, or for carrying on business or for any other purpose 
indicating his intention to stay outside India for an uncertain period, his existing 
resident account should be designated as a Non-Resident (Ordinary) account 
5.6 N on-Resident (ORDINARY) Rupee Account: 
A. Eligibility for opening of NRO Account: 
1. Any person resident outside India for putting through bonafide 
transactions in rupees. Foreign national having Work Visa/ Student Visa 
/ Tourist Visa can also open NRO accounts if their stay in India is less 
than six months, 
ii. The individuals of Bangladesh nationality may be allowed to open NRO 
account without the approval of the RBI subject to the following 
conditions: 
• T he Bank concerned should satisfy itself that the individual is 
holding valid visa and valid residential permit issued by Foreigner 
Registration Office (FRO) / Foreigner Regional Registration Office 
(FRRO) concerned. 
Page 30 of 59 
!M) trili 3ll!li ifl!ir:r ~ Bank of Baroda 
1:1 ~--· 11,f&M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
• Business entity of Bangladesh & Individuals / Business entity of 
Pakistan should not be allowed to open NRO account without prior 
approval of RBI 
8. Types of Accounts: 
NRO accounts may be opened, held and maintained in the form of Current, 
Savings, Recurring or Fixed Deposit Accounts. 
C. Joint Accounts with Residents: 
The accounts may be held jointly with residents on 'Former or Survivor' basis. 
NRls, PIOs and OCls may hold an NRO account jointly with other NRls, PIOs 
and OCls. 
D. Additional Rate of Interest on NRE/NRO Deposit to the Staff : 
No additional rate of interest on NRE/NRO deposits can be given to Staff 
deposit under NRE/NRO accounts. 
E. Operations in the Accounts : 
Permissible Credits / Debits: The Under mentioned credit and debit 
transactions may be allowed in the accounts. 
Credits: 
a) Inward remittances from outside India, legitimate dues in India and transfers 
from other NRO accounts are permissible credits to NRO account. 
b) Proceeds of any foreign currency, which is fully convertible, tendered by the 
account holder during his temporary visit to India. Foreign currency exceeding 
USO 5000 or its equivalent in form of cash should be supported by Currency 
Declaration Form. Rupee funds should be supported by encashment 
certificate, if they represent funds brought from outside India. 
c) Transfers from other NRO accounts, proceeds of loan disbursed by Bank/s 
against security of NRO Term Deposits /NRE Term Deposits/FCNR. 
d) Sale proceeds of assets including immovab le property acquired out of rupee/ 
foreign currency funds or by way of legacy/inheritance. 
e) Resident individual may make a rupee gift or may lend to a NRI/PIO/OCI who 
is a close relative of the resident individual [close relative as defined in Section 
6 of the Companies Act, 1956] by way of crossed cheque /electronic transfer. 
The amount shall be credited to the Non-Resident (Ordinary) Rupee Account 
(NRO) a/c of the NRI/PIO/OCI and credit of such gift amount or loan amount 
may be treated as an eligible credit to NRO a/c. The gift amount or loan 
amount would be within the overall limit of USO 250,000 per financial year as 
Page 31 of 59 
,.) hi 3ll!li ~ ~ Bank of Baroda 
g :::::: I ioFM#M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
permitted under the Liberalized Remittance Scheme (LRS) for a resident 
individual. 
Legitimate du es in India of the account holder: This includes current income 
like rent, dividend, and pension interest etc. 
Debits: 
"The account can be debited for the purpose of local payments, transfers to 
other NRO accounts or remittance of current income abroad net of applicable 
taxes. Apart from these, balances in the NRO account cannot be repatriated 
abroad except by NRls, PIOs and OCls up to USO 1 million, subject to 
conditions spec ified in foreign exchange management (remittance of assets) 
regulations, 2016. Funds can be transferred to NRE accou nt within this USO 1 
million facility. 
e. Remittances from NRO to NRE Invariably comply with following instructions of 
RBI as regard to transfer of funds from NRO either to NRE account or effecting 
outward remittance:- 
i. Obtain request application form from NRI/PIO/OCI for transfer of funds from 
NRO to NRE or for remittance outward 
ii. Undertaking from NRI/PIO/OCI that he has not made any remittance outward 
or transferred funds from NRO to NRE during the current financial year. 
iii. Alternatively to ob tain the details of such transfer from NRO Accounts held 
with other Bank or from our own branches in India during the current financial 
year. 
iv. Obtain 15 CA and 15 CB for the transaction amount requested by 
NRI/PIO/OCI Record details of transaction in a register customer ID wise and 
or Account wise Respect the overall limit of USO one million per depositor per 
financial year and record the exchange rate while allowing INR remittance or 
fund transfer from NRO equivalent of USO one million. 
v. Income-tax - It shall be mandatory on the part of Authorized Dealers to comply 
with the requirement of tax laws, as applicable. 
Page 32 of 59 
!IA) trifi 3ll!li i/dTi:r ~ Bank of Baroda 
El ~... 11+M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
F. Maximum Permissible Amount for Remittance: 
Balances in an N RO account of NRls/ PIOs are remittable up to USO 1 (one) 
million per financial year (April-March) along with their other eligible assets. 
In case the remittance is made in more than one instalment, the remittance of 
all instalments should be made through the same AD. 
An undertaking by the account holder/remitter as under, where the remittance 
is to be made from the balances held in the NRO account: 
"the said remittance is sought to be made out of the remitter's balances held in 
the account arising from his/ her legitimate receivables in India and not by 
borrowing from any other person or a transfer from any other NRO account 
and if such is found to be the case, the account holder will render himself/ 
herself liable for penal action under FEMA." 
G. Restrictions: 
The remittance facility in respect of sale proceeds of immovable property is not 
available to citizens of Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, China, 
Iran, Nepal, Bhutan, Hong Kong, Macau and Democratic People's Republic of 
Korea (DPRK) (who cannot acquire or transfer immovable property in India, 
other than on lease, not exceeding five years.) 
The facility of remittance of sale proceeds of other financial assets is not 
available to citizens of Bhutan, Bangladesh, Nepal and Pakistan. 
Such repatriation is allowed provided the following conditions are satisfied: 
"The immovable property was acquired by the seller in accordance with 
the provisions of the foreign exchange law in force at the time of 
acquisition by him or the provisions of foreign exchange management 
(acquisition and transfer of immovable property in India) regulations 
2000; 
"The amount to be repatriated does not exceed the amount paid for 
acquisition of the immovable property received through normal banking 
channels or out of funds held in FCNR (B) account or NRE account. 
H. Operation in NRO Account by Power of Attorney Holder: 
Power of Attorney for operations in the account can be granted in favor of a 
resident by the account holder(s) provided such operations are restricted to: 
All local payments in Rupees including payments for eligible investments 
subject to compliance with relevant regulations made by the Reserve Bank 
Page 33 of 59 
-.) trifi 3itg; ~ ~ Bank of Baroda 
g '.:'::: 1j,fM#M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023 -26 
5.7 and Remittance outside India of current income in India of the non-resident 
individual account holder, net of applicable taxes. 
The resident Power of Attorney holder is not permitted to repatriate outside 
India funds held in the account other than to the non-resident individual 
account holder nor to make payment by way of gift to a resident on behalf of 
the non- resident account holder or transfer funds from the account to another 
NRO accou nt. 
NRO Term Deposit: 
A. Tenor:- 
Bank shall have the freedom to determine the maturity/tenor of the deposit 
subject to the condition that minimum tenor of NRO Term Deposits shall be 
seven days . Our Bank is accepting Deposits for a minimum period of -7- days 
and maximum period of 10 Years. 
8. Renewal of Term Deposits / Overdue Deposit:- 
Branches should constantly follow up report on due da te diary for Term 
Deposit which can be generated from Finacle and inform the account holder 
well in advance to seek his / her instructions for renewal so as to avoid loss of 
interest to the depositor 
C. Auto Renewal of Term Deposit:- 
AII Term Deposits are under Automatic Renewal Scheme and the branches 
shall follow the under mentioned guidelines: 
"If the depositor does not come forward to renew FDR or does not give 
renewal instruction on due date, all term deposit of any maturity would 
be automatically renewed for one year and short deposit will be auto 
renewed for the same period for which original deposit was issued. 
D. Prepayment:- 
Prepayment of Deposits under NRO Accounts is permitted subject to 1 % 
penalty from the applicable rate at the time of placing the deposit, for the 
period for which the deposit has actually run. However penal interest will not 
be charged in case of premature withdrawal of Depos its provided such 
> \ 
Page 34 of 59 
•,? Efi/i 3ll!li ~ ~ Bank of Baroda 
g ~.::-: IHW 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023 -26 
deposits are reinvested in the Term Deposits with maturity period longer than 
the remaining period of original contract of deposits Pre-maturely withdrawn. 
E. Waiver of Penalty:- 
No penalty for prepayment of deposit upto 5 lacs which remained with the 
Bank for a minimum period of 12 months. In such cases the rate of interest 
applicable for premature payment without penalty will be rate ruling on the date 
of accepting of deposits (i.e. the date of contract) for period for which the 
deposit has actually remained with the Bank or the Contracted Rate whichever 
is lower. 
If at a later date i.e. after such an automatic renewal, the depositor requests 
for pre-payment of the old deposits, before making payment the branch should 
obtain old receipt duly discharged and also obtain prepayment instructions for 
the automatically renewed FD and then pre pay the renewed FDR as per rules. 
F. Request for Longer Maturity:- 
When the Depositor at a later date i.e. after such automatic renewal requests 
for longer maturity, pre-payment as above is to be made without charging 
penalty and the new FDR may be issued as requested. 
G. Nomination Facility:- 
F acility of Nomination is available to NRO Deposits, the nominee may either 
be a Resident or Non-Resident. 
H. TDS on Interest Paid on Term Deposit/Recurring Deposit: 
The definition of time deposits has changed an d w.e.f. 01-06-2015 the 
definition of Time Deposit will include Recurring Depos its. Hence TDS will be 
deducted on such Deposits where interest payment exceeds the threshold limit 
of Rs.10,000/- or as stipulated from time to time, in a Financial Year. 
Page 35 of 59 
•) t}'qj3if!fi~ ~ Bank of Baroda a .... 1HWi?M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
I. Double Tax Avoidance Agreement: 
Note on TDS Payment in NRO Ale 
TRAN SACTION IN INDIA 
.__~M=-'· ;;;_B _ _.I~ 
.__ __ 1v_1r_. x __ _,1- Mr.A 
I/ 
=====Jv=rr:. Z=====I Mr.Y NRO A/c of 
Non resident + Bank give.~ 
Interest on 
Balance 
BANK 
Any person making 
payment to N R is 
rcspo siblc to deduct 
'J'DS before payment 
u/s 195 of the Income 
Tax Acr. It is not the 
liability of bank Bank has to 
deduct TDS on 
interest paid on 
deposits @30% 
+Surchargc & 
Ccss, as 
applicable TRAN SACTION OUTSIDE INDIA 
When the money 
goes out of lndia 
Form '!SCA and 
Form 1 SCB is filed 
wherein a C1\ is 
responsible to check 
if tax has been paid 
or not before 
remitting money 
outside India Non­ 
Resident's 
Bank Account 
TDS RATE FOR INTEREST ON NRO ACCOUNT 
Any interest paid/accrued in an NRO account, either on savings or fixed deposits, will 
be subject to a flat TDS rate of 30% along with a surcharge and a health and 
education cess of 4% for the financial year 2023-24. 
The rate of surcharge applicable increases with the increase in the interest income as 
mentioned below: 
1. If the total interest earned on NRO deposits and savings bank accounts is 
less than or e_qual to Rs 50 lakh, then the tax rate is 31.2% (TDS @ 30% + 
surcharge 0% + cess 4%) 
2. If the total interest earned is greater than Rs 50 lakh and less than or equal 
to Rs 1 crore, then the tax rate is 34.32% (TDS @ 30% + surcharge 10% + 
cess 4%) 
3. If the total interest earned is qreater than Rs 1 crore and less than or equal 
to Rs 2 crore, then the tax rate is 35.88% (tax rate @ 30% + surcharge 15% 
+ cess 4%) 
If , . 
Page 36 of 59 
~) d'iTi 3ll!li ~ ~ Bank of Baroda 
a ·-·· lhM#M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
4. If the total interest earned is greater than Rs 2 crore and less than or equal 
to Rs 5 crore, then the tax rate is 39% (tax rate @ 30% + surcharge 25% + 
cess 4%) 
5. If the total interest earned exceeds Rs 5 crore, then the tax rate is 42.74% 
(tax rate@ 30% + surcharge 37% + cess 4%). 
Budget 2023 Update: Under New tax Regime, the highest surcharge of 37% has 
been reduced to 25% which will be applicable from 1st April 2023 (FY 2023-24). 
* The rates are subject to change. 
6. 
6.1 NON-RESIDENT (EXTERNAL) RUPE E ACCOUNT: 
NRE Term Deposit- Tenor: 
RBI permits authorized Banks to accept NRE Deposits between the maturity 
period range of one year to three years. However, Banks are also allowed to 
accept NRE Deposits above three years looking to their Asset-Liability point of 
view. Our Bank is accepting Deposits for a minimum period of -1- year and 
maximum period of 10 Years. 
6.2 J oint Account:- 
Opening of Joint Accounts in the names of two or more Non- Resident 
individuals is permitted provided all the account holders are persons of Indian 
Nationality or Origin (i.e. Non-Resident Indians). 
Non-Resident Indians (NRI) are also permitted to op en NRE / FCNR(B) 
account jointly with their resident close relative (relative as defined in Section 6 
of the Companies Act, 1956) on 'former or survivor' basis. However, during the 
life time of the NRI/PIO/OCI account holder, the resident relative can operate 
the account only as a Power of Attorney holder. 
Meaning of "relative as per section 6" - A person shall be deemed to be a 
relative of another, if, and only if, 
They are members of a Hindu undivided family; 
Or 
They are husband and wife; 
Or 
The one is related to the other in the manner indicated in Schedule IA (list of 
close relatives- Book of Instruction on NRI) 
Resident Indians are also permitted to op en deposit accounts with their close 
relatives Non Resident Indians on "Former or Survivor" basis. 
Page 37 of 59 
!M) ~ 3ll!li ifdlGT 
f!f!l'LJ Bank of Baroda 
g ~ I VilC¥lil 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
6.3 Nomination and Settlement of Deceased Accounts: 
Bank may allow remittance of funds lying in the NRE / FCNR accounts of the 
deceased account holders to their non- resident nominees subject to the 
following conditions: 
a) A valid nomination has been registered on the Bank's records in favour 
of the nominee/s in conformity with the provisions of the Banking 
Companies (Nomination) Rules, 1985. 
b) The nominee continues to be non-resident at the time of the claim/ 
remittance sought for from India and that the deceased depositor was 
non-resident at the time of his/her death; 
c) All the legal heirs are non-residents. A signed declaration to the effect 
duly witnessed may be submitted by the nominee to the Branch. 
In case the claimants of an N RE Term Deposit Account of a deceased 
depositor are residents, the deposit on maturity shall be treated as a domestic 
Rupee Term Deposit and interest shall be paid for the subsequent period at a 
rate applicable to a domestic Term Deposit of similar maturity. 
6.4 Temporary Overdrawing: 
Foreign Exchange Management (Deposit) Regulations, 2016 under 
Notification No FEMA 5 (R) /2016-RB dated 01.04.2016 allows that Authorized 
Banks, may at their discretion,/commercial judgment, allow for a period of not 
more than two weeks, overdrawing in NRE Savings Bank accounts, up to a 
limit of Rs.50000/- subject to a condition that such overdrawing together with 
the interest payable thereon are cleared/repaid within the said period of two 
weeks, out of inward remittances through Banking channels or by transfer of 
funds from other NRE/FCNR (B) accounts. 
6.5 Wa iver of Penalty: 
No penalty for prepayment of deposit upto 5 lacs which remained with the 
Bank for a minimum period of 12 months. In such cases the rate of interest 
applicable for premature payment without penalty will be rate ruling on the date 
of accepting of deposits (i.e. the date of contract) for period for which the 
deposit has actually remained with the Bank or the Contracted Rate whichever 
is lower. 
6.6 Interest Rate on NRE Savings Deposit Account:- 
Banks are free t o determine their interest rates on savings deposits under 
Non-Resident (External) Rupee (NRE) Deposit accounts subject to condition 
that interest rates offered on NRE Saving Depos it will not be higher than those 
offered on d omestic Saving Deposits. 
Page 38 of 59 
•) b'ifi 3ll!li iidic:r ~ Bank of Baroda 
1:1 --· IHM 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023 -26 
6.7 Tax Exemption: 
Interest income on balances standing to the credit of NRE / FCNR (B) 
Accounts is exempt from Income Tax. Likewise balances held in such 
accounts are exempt from Wealth Tax. 
6.8 Penalty on premature withdrawal of NRE deposits - 
(a) The components of penalty shall be clearly brought to the notice of the 
depositors at the time of acceptance of the deposits. 
(b) No penalty shall be levied for premature withdrawal of NRE term deposits for 
conversion into Resident Foreign Currency (RFC) Account. 
(c) Penalties for premature withdrawal shall be levied for conversion of NRE 
deposit into FCNR (B) deposit and vice versa. 
(d) No penalty for premature withdrawal shall be levied, where depositors of the 
branch as mentioned in section 4(h) of this direction desires premature 
withdrawal of deposit consequent to the transfer of business to another 
bank. 
7. FOREIGN C URRENCY (NON-RESIDENT) ACCOUNT (BANK) 
SCHEME[FCNR{B)ACCOUNTI 
7.1 General: 
Reserve Bank introduced the Foreign Currency (Non-Resident) Account 
(Bank) scheme effective from 15th May, 1993. Under the scheme, Bank bears 
the exchange rate risk and deploy the amounts of deposits mobilized under the 
scheme in a variety of purposes including for grant of pre- shipment credit to 
exporters. 
Account holder is protected against fluctuations in Indian Rupee Value vis-a­ 
vis the currency in which the account is denominated. 
7.2 Nomenclature of the scheme: 
Foreign Currency (Non-resident) Account (Bank) Scheme (FCNR (B) 
Account). 
7.3 Eligibility: 
NRls/PIOs/OCls are eligible to open and maintain these accounts with an 
authorized dealer. 
NOTE: Opening of FCNR (B) accou nts by Individual/entities of Pakistan and 
Bangladesh nationalities shall requires prior approval of the Reserve Bank of 
India 
Page 39 of 59 
~}tlcfi3ii!liilffll:T ~ Bank of Baroda 
Cl :'-7.: I l+JC#IM 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023 -26 
7.4 Currency: 
At present, our Bank accepts deposit in US Dollar, Pound Sterling, Euro, 
Canadian D ollar and Australian Dollar (henceforth called Permissible 
currencies) 
7.5 Period: 
The deposits can be accepted in the form of Term Deposit between maturity 
period ranges of one to five years. 
7.6 Rate of Interest: 
·a) The interest rates on all Deposits, including where differential rates of 
interest are offered, shall be subject to the overall ceiling prescribed at 
(e) below. 
b) Interest on floating rate deposits shall be paid within the ceiling of swap 
rates for the respective currency/ maturity and in case of fixed rate 
deposits, interest shall be paid within the ceiling of Overnight Alternative 
Reference Rate for the respective currency/ maturity. 
c) The interest reset period shall be six months for all floating rate 
deposits. 
d) The Overnight Alternative Reference Rate for the respective currency 
/SWAP rates as on the last working day of the preceding month shall 
form the base for fixing ceiling rates for the interest rates offered 
effective in the following month. 
e) The Interest Rates ceiling on FCNR (B) Depos its shall be as under: 
Period of de osit Ceilin rate 
1 year to less than 3 years Overnight Alternative Reference 
Rate for the respec tive currency/ 
Swa lus 250 basis oints 
3 years and ab ove up to and Overnight Alternative Reference 
Rate for the respective currency / 
including 5 years Swa lus 350 basis oints 
f) NRI Department, BCC, Mumbai advises rate of interest payable on 
FCNR (B) Deposits as per RBI directives and Bank's ALCO Committee 
guidelines on monthly basis. d 
1r:~ ~ r , . 
' 
\1 Q,,yr.': 1:1:' , 
~~ ,, 7 
Page 40 of 59 
/M) icfi 3ll!li ~ ~ Bank of Baroda 
a !"-. ll1FM4PM 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023 -26 
g) The Overnight Alternative Reference Rate for the respective currency / 
Swap rates quoted/displayed by Financial Benchmarks India Pvt. Ltd. 
(FBIL) shall be used as the reference for arriving at the interest rates on 
FCNR (B) deposits. 
h) Interest rates on NRE/ NRO deposits shall not be higher than those 
offered by the bank on comparable domestic rupee term deposits. 
i) If an NRE account holder, immediately on return to India, requests for 
conversion of the NRE term deposit into Resident Foreign Currency 
Account (RFC), interest shall be paid as under: 
3. if the NRE deposit has not run for a minimum period of one year, 
interest shall be paid at a rate not exceeding the rate payable on 
savings deposits held in RFC accounts. 
4. In all other cases, interest shall be paid at the contracted rate. 
J) Bank shall pay interest at the time of conversion of FCNR(B ) Account 
into RFC/Resident Rupee Account even if the depos it has not completed the 
minimum maturity period. 
7.7 Repatriation: 
Repatriation of funds permitted freely in any convertible currency. 
7.8 Permissible Debits/ Credits: 
i) All debits / credits permissible in respect of NRE Accounts as specified under 
Non-Resident (External) Account Scheme will also be permissible in respect of 
these accounts. 
ii) Transfer of funds from the existing NRE Accounts to FCNR (B) Accounts and 
vice versa, of the same account holder, is permissible without the prior approval 
of Reserve Bank of India (RBI). 
iii) Balance in EEFC and RFC (D) account may be allowed to be credited to FCNR 
(B) Account, at the option/ request of the account holders consequent upon 
change of their residential status from resident to Non-Resident. 
iv) Fresh inward remittances received from abroad by the base branch in following 
manner through proper Banking channel. 
Page 41 of 59 
/M) trifi 3it!li ilI!rc:r 
flf!!!.J Bank of Baroda 
g ::::: : I l•FW#M 
DEPOSIT POLIO' 2023-26 
7 .9 Calculation of Interest: 
Interest on FCNR (B) balances held in these account may be paid half yearly. 
Interest may be credited in FCNR. (B) Account itself or may be credited in 
separate account for conversion to INR or remittance as per instructions of the 
depositor. 
Interest on the deposits accepted under the scheme shall be calculated on the 
basis of 360 days to a year. 
The interest on FCNR (B) Deposits shall be calculated and paid at intervals of 
180 days each and thereafter for the remaining actual number of days. 
The option to receive the interest on maturity with compounding effect shall 
vest with the depositor. 
7.10 Payment of interest on F CNR (8) deposits 
(a) Returning NRls FCNR (B) deposits shall be treated as resident deposits 
· from the date of return of the account holder to India 
b~ Conversion of FCNR (8) Accounts of Returning Indians into RFC 
Accounts / Resident Rupee Accounts (Payment of interest) - Bank 
shall pay interest at the time of conversion of FCNR(B) Account into 
RFC/Resident Rupee Account even if the deposit has not completed the 
minimum maturity period. Provided that the rate of interest shall not 
exceed the rate payable on savings bank deposits held under RFC 
Account Scheme. 
7.11 Payment of Interest on Overdue FCNR (8) Deposit:- 
AII the Non-Resident deposits [FCNR (B) and NRE] shall be renewed under 
the Automatic Renewal System. In respect of Automatic Renewal System and 
payment of overdue interest specified under the Non- Resident (External) 
Account Scheme will be applicable for FCNR (8) Scheme also. 
Branches may renew an overdue deposit or a portion thereof provided the 
overdue period from the date of maturity till the date of renewal (both days 
inclusive) does not exceed 14 days. The rate of interest payable on the 
amount of the deposit so renewed should be the appropriate rate of interest for 
the period of renewal as prevailing on the date of maturity or on the date when 
the depositor seeks renewal, whichever is lower. 
Page 42 of 59 
•) tc,, 3ifr.n Wfi3 ~ Bank of Baroda 
g ::::: IHW 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
In case of overdue deposit where the overdue period exceeds 14 days and the 
depositor places the entire am ount of overdue deposit or a portion thereof as a 
fresh FCNR (B) deposit: - 
a) The deposit is not to be renewed but to be accepted as a fresh deposit 
from the date of request by the depositor. 
b) The rate of interest applicable on the said fresh Deposit will be the 
appropriate rate of interest for the period of the deposit as prevailing on 
the date of request by the depositor. 
c) As for the interest for the overdue period, the applicable rate will be the 
appropriate rate of interest as prevailing on the date of maturity or on the 
date of request by the Depositor whichever is lower, applicable for the 
period of 1 year. 
d) The said overdue interest may either be paid immediately or may be 
included in the fresh deposit amount kept by the depositor. 
e) The overdue interest so paid / credited to fresh deposit account should 
invariably be indicated on the fa ce of the Deposit Receipt. 
f) If the deposit is withdrawn before completion of minimum stipulated 
period of 1 year, the overdue interest so paid / credited to the deposit 
account itself, will be recovered. 
g) Necessa ry Permission for payment of overdue interest should be 
obtained from the Regional Authority. 
7.12 Payment of Interest on Premature Withdrawal: 
i) Branches at the request may permit premature withdrawal of FCNR (B) deposit. 
The rate of interest applicable in the case of AUD, CAD, US Dollar, Pound 
Sterling and Euro will be one percent less than the actual interest payable for the 
period for which it has run prevailing on the date of issue of receipt or on the date 
when the depositor seeks premature withdrawal, whichever is lower, provided the 
deposit has run for a minimum period of one year. However the component of 
penalty should be clearly brought to the notice of the depositor at the time of 
acceptance of deposit. 
ii) Conversion of FCNR (B) Deposits into NRE / FCNR (B) Depos its for availing 
higher rate of interest before maturity should be subject to the penal provisions 
relating to premature withdrawal. 
iii) In case of splitting of the amount of Term Deposit at the request from the 
claimant/s, no penalty for premature withdrawal of the Term Deposit shall be 
• l r\ 
i '"h:·,;'"' 
Page 43 of 59 
!M) ffm 3ll!li ~ 
ll[ff!,) Bank of Baroda 
&;I .••. 1j,fJC#M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023 -26 
levied if the period and aggregate amount of the deposit do not undergo any 
change. 
iv) Bank shall, at their discretion, levy penalty to recover the swap cost in the case of 
premature withdrawal of FCNR (B) deposits. 
v) No penalty for premature withdrawal shall be levied, where depositors of the 
branch as mentioned in section 4(h) of direction Bo. Master Direction DBR. Dir. 
No.84/13.03.00/2015-16 dated 03.03.16 desire premature withdrawal of deposit 
consequent to the transfer of business to another Bank. 
vi) For any premature withdrawal before completion of one year, no interest will be 
payable. 
vii) No penalty shall be levied for premature withdrawal of NRE term deposits for 
conversion into Resident Foreign Currency (RFC) Account by Non-Resident Indians 
on their return to India. 
viii) Penalties for premature withdrawal shall be levied for conversion of NRE deposit into 
FCNR (B) deposit and vice versa. 
ix) No penalty for premature withdrawal shall be levied, where depositors of the branch 
as mentioned in section 4(h) of this direction desires premature withdrawal of deposit 
consequent to the transfer of business to ano ther bank. 
x) Penalty shall be levied on premature withdrawal of FCNR(B) deposits (i) when the 
depositors return to India for permanent settleme nt. (ii) for conversion of FCNR (B) 
deposits into NRE deposits or vice-versa. 
xi) Waiver of Penalty: 
In order to waive the penalty on premature withdrawal to renew of FCNR (B) 
Deposits for better rate of interest provided if the customer is ready to renew the 
deposits for a period more than the residual maturity and the same deposit has 
run at least for a period of one year at our Bank. In other word the renewal 
period should be more than residua l period with a minimum of one year. 
7 .13 Interest payable on the deposit of a deceased FCNR(B) depositor : 
If the deposit is claimed before the maturity date, interest shall be paid not at 
the contracted rate but at the rate applicable to the period for which the deposit 
remained with the bank and without charging penalty for pre-payment; 
In case the claimants are residents, the maturity proceeds shall be converted 
into Indian Rupees on the date of maturity and interest shall be paid for the 
subsequent period at the rate applicable to a domestic term deposit of similar 
maturity. 
Page 44 of 59 
,.)h,3m,;~ ~ Bank of Baroda 
1:1 '.:~ litf-W 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
8.SPECIAL NON-RESIDENT RUPEE ACCOUNT (SNRR ACCOUNT):- 
1. Any person resident outside India, having a business interest in India, may 
open a Special Non-Resident Rupee Account (SNRR account) with an 
authorised Bank for the purpose of putting through bona fide transactions in 
rupees . 
2. Opening of SNRR accounts by Pakistan and Bangladesh nationals and en tities 
incorporated in Pakistan and Bangladesh requires prior approval of Reserve 
Bank. 
3. The SNRR account shall carry the nomenclature of the specific business for 
which it is in operation and shall not earn any interest. Separate SNRR 
account for each category of transactions or a single SNRR Account for a 
person resident outside India engaged in multiple categories of transactions 
provided it is able to identify/segregate and account them category-wise. 
4. The debits/ credits and the balances in the account shall be incidental and 
commensurate with the business operations of the account holder. 
s. The tenure of the SNRR account should be concurrent to the ten ure of the 
contract/ period of operation/ the business of the account holder and in no 
case should exceed seven years. Approval of the Reserve Bank shall be 
obtained in cases requiring renewal. However, the restriction of seven years 
shall not be applicable to SNRR accounts opened by persons resident outside 
India for certain specified purposes 
6. The balance s in the SNRR account shall be eligible for repatriation and 
transfers from any NRO account to the SNRR account are prohibited. 
7. All transactions in the SNRR account will be subject to payment of applicable 
taxes in India. 
s. SNRR account may be designated as resident rupee account on the account 
holder becoming a resident. 
~ ..,1-;q,~"'~~ 
;f ,,>- I< , ;..,. ~ 
If 1- , 
~Y- 
Page 45 of 59 
~J lcfi 3ll!li ~ ~ Bank of Baroda 
g :-:::; 1j,fW#M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023 -26 
9. RESIDENT FOREIGN CURRENCY (RFC) ACCOUNT: 
A person resident in India may open, hold and maintain in India a Foreign Currency 
Account, to be known as a Resident Foreign Currency (RFC) Account, out of foreign 
exchange - 
a) received as pension or any other superannuation or other monetary 
benefits from his employer outside India; or 
b) realized on conversion of the assets which were acquired by him when he was 
a non -resident and repatriated to India; or 
c) received or acquired as gift or inheritance from a person resident outside India 
and repatriated to India; or 
d) received as the proceeds of life insurance policy claims/maturity/surrender 
values settled in foreign currency from an insurance company in India 
permitted to undertake life insurance business by the Insurance Regulatory 
and Development Authority 
e) any income arising or accruing thereon which is held outside India in 
pursuance of a general or special permission granted by the Reserve Bank; 
9.1 Type of Accounts: 
The accounts may be maintained in the form of Current Account, Savings 
Account and Term Deposit Account. 
9.2 Rate of Interest on Term Deposit: 
One year and above but below 5 years period, same rates as applicable to 
FCNR (B) Deposits. 
9.3Other Aspects: 
Pre- Pa ment Same as FCNR B De osits 
Same as FCNR B De osits 
Same as FCNR B De osits 
Same as FCNR B De osits 
Page 46 of 59 
•) deli 3ll!li iff/Tc:T ~ Bank of Baroda 
g ~= IViW#M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
9.4Joint Account: 
RBI has permitted Resident Indians to include Non-resident close relative as 
defined in Sec 6 of Companies Act, 1956 as a joint holder in their RFC 
Account on "Former or Survivor' basis. However, such Non-Resident close 
relative shall not be eligible to op erate the account during the lifetime of the 
Resident Account holder. 
9.5 Remittance after Account Holder's Death by a Nominee Resident outside 
India: 
a) RBI has given general permission to AD to allow a nominee being a 
person resident outside India to remit funds to the extent of his share or 
entitlement from the account of the deceased account holder. 
b) A nominee being a person resident in India, who is desirous of remitting 
funds outside India out of his share for meeting the liabilities abroad of 
the deceased, may apply to the RBI for such remittances. 
c) No loan/overdraft shall be granted by the Bank against balances in RFC 
Accou nts. 
9.6 Resident Foreign Currency (Domestic) Account. [RFC (D) Account] : 
1. A resident individual may open an R FC(D) account to retain in a bank account 
in India the foreign exchange acquired in the form of currency notes, bank 
notes and travellers cheque from overseas sources such as: 
a. payment while on a visit abroad for services not arising from any business 
or anything done in India; 
b. honorarium or gift or for services rendered or in settlement of any lawful 
obligation from any person not resident in India and who is on a visit to 
India; 
c. honorarium o r gift while on a visit to any place outside India; 
d. gift from a relative; 
e. unspent foreign exchange acquired from an authorised person for travel 
abroad; 
f. representing the disinvestment proceeds received by the resident account 
holder on conversion of shares held by him to ADRs/ GDRs under the 
ADR/GDR scheme approved by Government of India. 
g. by way of earnings received as the proceeds of life insurance policy claims/ 
maturity/surrender values settled in foreign currency from an insurance 
Page 47 of 59 
!M) f{ifi 3ll!li iJdii:r 
lf{fJ!J Bank of Baroda 
g :'... I j,f ##lll 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
company in India permitted to undertake life insurance business by the 
Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority 
h. The sum total of the a ccruals in the account during a calendar month 
should be converted into Rupees on or before the last day of the 
succeeding calendar month after adjusting for utilization of the balances for 
approved purposes or forward commitments. 
i. Balances in the account can be used for any current or capital account 
transactions in accordance with the provisions of the Foreign Exchange 
Management (Current Account Transactions) Rules, 2000 or the Foreign 
Exchange Management (Permissible Capital Account Transactions) 
Regulations, 2000 , respectively. 
j. Balances may be credited to NRE/ FCNR (B) Accounts, at the option/ 
request of the accountholders consequent upon change of their residential 
status from resident to non-resident. 
9.7 Operation in the Account:- 
The sum total of the accruals in the account during a calendar month should be 
converted into Rupees on or before the last day of the succeeding calendar 
month after adjusting for utilization of the balances for approved purposes or 
forward commitments. 
i) Debits to the account shall be for payments towards a current account transaction 
in accordance with the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management (Current 
Account Transactions) Rules, 2000 and towards a Capital Account transaction 
permissible under the Foreign Exchange Management (Permissible Capital 
Account Transactions) Regulations, 2000. 
ii) The account shall be maintained in the form of Current Account and this account 
will be Non-Interest bearing. 
iii) Cheque Book facility may be provided. 
iv) There shall be no ceiling on the balances in the Account. 
v) Instant credit against currency notes and Traveller's Cheques received for credit 
of such account should be accorded (Relative expenses should be absorbed to 
the branch Profit & Loss Ale). 
vi) Notional rates as applicable to EEFC, FCNR (B) and RFC will be the rate for 
converting the foreign currency amount into Indian Rupee in the branch books. 
vii) Minimum balance to be maintained in these accounts is USO 500/- or its 
equivalent. 
/' ..,, 
Page 48 of 59 
•} trifi 3ll!li ~ ~ Bank of Baroda 
El ~ IHW 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023 -26 
viii)Charges for not maintaining minimum balance etc. will be as applicable to normal 
current accou nts. 
ix) Nomination facility is available. 
x) All the precautions / procedures including "Know Your Customer" as applicable 
for opening an y other domestic account will be applicable for opening these 
accounts. 
10 EXCHANGE EARNER 'S FOREIGN 
ACCOUNT SCHEME:- CURRENCY (EEFC) 
EEFC Accou nt Scheme was introduced in 1992, which enables exporters and 
other exchange earners to retain 100 percent of their receipts in foreign 
exchange with an authorised Bank in India. 
A person resident in India (which includes individuals, firms, companies, etc.) 
may open, hold and maintain with an Bank in India, a Foreign Currency 
Accou nt to be known as Exchange Earner's Foreign Currency (EEFC) 
Account. The EEFC Account shall be opened, held and maintained in the form 
of non-interest bearing current account only. 
The sum total of the accruals in the account during a calendar month should 
be converted into Rupees on or before the last day of the succeeding calendar 
month after adjusting for utilization of the balances for approved purposes or 
forward commitments. 
Fund-Based/ Non-Fund Based credit facilities should not be granted against 
the balances held in EEFC Accounts. Exporters can repay packing credit 
advan ces, whether availed of in Rupee or in foreign currency, from balances in 
their EEFC account to the extent exports have actually taken place. 
Balances held in the account may be credited to NRE/ FCNR (B) Accounts. at 
the op tion/ request of the account holders consequent upon change of their 
residential status from Resident to Non-Resident. 
The credits permitted to this account are: 
a. 100 percent of the foreign exchange earnings by way of inward remittance through 
normal banking channel, (other than loans or investments); 
b. payments received for the purpose of counter trade; 
c. advance remittance received by an exporter towards export of goods or services; 
d. professional earnings including director's fees, consultancy fees, lecture fees, 
honorarium and similar other earnings received by a professional by rendering 
services in his individual capacity; 
e. interest earned on the funds held in the account; 
f. Re-credit of un-utilized foreign currency earlier withdrawn from the account; 
Page 49 of 59 V 
"A) tlcJi 3ll!li ildi"f:r ~ Bank of Ba;oda 
g .... 1iotlCAAII 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
g. repayment of trade related loans/ advances (which were granted to the a ccount 
holder's importer customer out of balances held in the EEFC accounts); 
h. disinvestment proceeds received by the resident account holder on conversion of 
shares held by him to ADRs/ GDRs under the ADR/GDR Scheme approved b y the 
Government of India. 
i. Payments received in foreign exchange by an Indian startup arising ou t of 
sales/export made by the start up or its overseas subsidiaries. 
Debits: The debits allowed in these accounts are: 
a) Payment outside India towards capital or current account transactions in accordance 
with the provisions of Foreign Exchange Manag ement (Permissible Capital Account 
Transactions) Regulations, 2000 or Foreign Exchange Management (Current Account 
Transactions) Rules, 2000, respectively; 
b) payment in foreign exchange towards cost of goods purchased from a 100 percent 
Export Oriented Unit or a Unit in an Export Processing Zone/ Software Technology 
Park/ Electronic Hardware Technology Park; 
c) payment of customs duty in accordance with the provisions of Export Import Policy; 
d) trade related loans/ advances, by an exporter account holder to his importer customer 
outside India, subject to complying the provisions of FEMA and the rules/ regulations 
made thereund er; 
e) payment in foreign exchange to a person resident in India for supply of goods/ 
services including payments for air fare and hotel expend iture 
Withdrawal in rupees are permitted from this accou nt, provided the amount so 
withdrawn cannot be re-credited to the account. 
The claims settled in rupees by ECGC/ insurance companies should not be construed 
as export realization in foreign exchange and the claim amount will not be an eligible 
credit to the EEFC account. 
11. DIAMOND DOLLAR ACCOUNT (ODA) SCHEME - DOA A ccount: 
Firms and companies which comply with the eligibility criteria stipulated in the 
Foreign Trade Policy of the Government of India may open DOA accounts, 
details of which are laid down in Schedule II of FEMA 1 O(R), as amended from 
time to time, with an AD in India. The salient features of the Scheme are: 
a) Realization of export proceeds and local sales (in USO) of rough, cut, 
polished diamonds; and pre and post shipment finance availed in USO 
can be credited to such account. 
b) Payments for purchase of rough, cut and polished diamonds can be 
made from DOA account. Funds can also be transferred to rupee 
account of the exporter. 
Page SO of 59 
!M) tk,, 3ll!li ll1ii:r ~ Bank of Baroda 
g -~.. lj,fM§M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
c) The account should be maintained in the form of a Non-Interest bearing 
current account. 
d) The sum total of the accruals in the account during a calendar month 
should be converted into Rupees on or before the last day of the 
succee ding calendar month after adjusting for utilization of the balances 
for approved purposes or forward commitments. 
12. BARODA ADVANTAGE FIXED DEPOSIT (NON-CALLABLE) UNDER 
RIRD/MIP/QIP SCHEME FOR NRI CUSTOMERS: 
Main feature of the product is as under 
a. As per Direction of RBI, Bank can pay differential rate of interest on 
term deposit above Rs.1.00 crore and without premature withdrawal 
option. 
Bank has made Non-callable Deposit for NRE / NRO FDR over and 
above the card rate where minimum deposit is of Rs.1.00 crore to less 
than Rs.2/-Crore with additional interest revised from time to time and 
without premature option. 
• In exceptional condition premature withdrawal permission may be 
granted by Head Retail Liability Vertical. The Retail Liability Head 
will assess the exceptional condition and after being satisfied with 
the reason he may allow. Exceptional Conditions are: 
i. Branch made deposit erroneously. 
11. Non-Callable auto renewed in Non-Callable 
iii. Customer wanted modification within 15 days of making of Non­ 
callable Deposit 
iv. Customer's Death. 
v. Non- callable Deposit held in the name of Govt Bodies. 
• In case of Premature Withdrawal, the rate applicable to Non- Callable shall 
not be applicable and the deposit will be treated as Callable Term Deposit. 
Further 2% Penal Interest on callable deposit rate will be ap plicable for 
premature payment of deposits (i.e. the date of contract) for period for which 
the deposit has actually remained with the Bank or the Contracted Rate 
whichever is lower. Penalty will not be applicable in case of error made by the 
branch. 
b. Minimum Period 01 year and maximum is 10 years. 
Page 51 of 59 
!M) tl'm 3jfy; iH1ic:T ~ Bank of Baroda 
g '.'.::: ihf ..... 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
CHAPTER -Ill 
13. INTEREST RATE FRAMEWORK: 
a) "The rates are uniform across all branches and for all customers and there 
shall be no discrimination in the matter of interest paid on the deposits, 
between one deposit and another of similar amount, accepted on the same 
date, at any of its offices". 
"Interest rates payable on deposits shall be strictly as per the schedule of 
interest rates disclosed in advance. Bank is maintaining the bulk deposit 
interest rate card in Core Banking system to facilitate supervisory review". All 
transactions, involving payment of interest on deposits shall be rounded off to the 
nearest rupee for rupee deposits and to two decimal places for FCNR (B) 
deposits. 
b) Deposits maturing o n Non-Business working day. If a term deposit is 
maturing for payment on a n on-business working day, interest will be at the 
originally contracted rate on the original principal deposit amount for the non­ 
business working day, intervening betwee n the date of the maturity of the 
specified term of the deposit and the date of payment of the proceeds of the 
deposit on the succeeding working day. In case of reinvestment deposits and 
recurring deposits, Bank shall pay interest for the intervening non-business 
working day on maturity value. 
In respect of a term deposit maturing for payment on 2nd or 4th Saturday 
/Sunday or a holiday or a non-business working day, branches may pay 
interest at the originally contracted rate on the deposit amount for the 2nd or 4th 
Saturday/Sunday/non-business working day intervening between the date of 
expiry of the specified term of the deposit and the date of payment of the 
proceeds of the depos it on the succeeding working day. 
c) In case of reinvestment deposits and recurring deposits, Bank shall pay 
interest for the intervening Non-Business working day on the maturity value 
d) Payment of Additional Interest on domestic deposits at the Bank's discretion, 
we allow additional interest of one per cent per annum, over and above the 
rate of interest mentioned in the schedule of interest rates on savings or a term 
deposits of Bank's staff and their exclusive associations as well as on deposits 
of Chairman, Chairman & Managing Director, Executive Director or such other 
Executives appointed for a fixed tenure, subject to the following conditions: 
i) The additional interest is payable till the person continues to be eligible for 
the same and in case of his ceasing to be so eligible, till the maturity of a 
term deposit account. 
Page 52 of 59 
•) tifi 3ll!{i illfii:r ~ Bank of Baroda 
g .... ihfM!#M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
ii) Benefits of additional interest to Bank's staff member or retired staff 
member is available on ly in case of the staff member or retired staff 
members has an account singly or jointly with family member where the 
staff member/retired staff member is the "Principal Account Holder". 
iii) In case of employees taken over pursuant to the scheme of 
amalgamation, the additional interest is allowed only if the interest at the 
contractual rate tog ether with the additional interest does not exceed the 
rate, which could have been allowed if such employees were originally 
employed by the Bank. 
iv) In the case of employees taken on deputation from another Bank, the 
Bank from which they are deputed may allow additional interest in 
respect of the savings or term deposit account opened with it during the 
period of deputation. 
v) In the case of persons taken on deputation for a fixed tenure or on a 
contract of a fixed tenure, the benefit will cease to accrue on the expiry 
of the term of deputation or contract, as the case may be. 
vi) Bank Employee s' Federations, in which Bank employees are not direct 
members, shall not be eligible for additional interest. 
vii) The additional interest may be paid on the following deposits after 
obtaining a declaration from the depositor concerned, that the monies 
deposited or which may be deposited from time to time into such 
account belong to the depositor: 
a) Member or a retired member of the Bank's staff, either singly or 
jointly with any member or members of his/her family; or 
b) The spouse of a deceased member or a deceased retired 
member of the Bank's staff; and 
c) An Association or a fund, members of which are members of the 
Bank's staff. 
d) Resident Indian retired staffs, who are senior citizens, the benefit 
of additional interest rates as admissible to senior citizens over 
and abo ve the additional interest payable to them by virtue of 
their being retired members of the Bank staff. 
e) Bank shall, at their discretion, formulate term deposit schemes 
specifically for resident Indian senior citizens, offering higher and 
/. 1, /-:. 
..:!'·; 
Page 53 of 59 
!IA) -a'ili 3ii!fi ~ ~ Bank of Baroda 
1:1 .... I 1,,11¥l1M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023 -26 
fixed rates of interest as compared to normal deposits of any 
size. 
f) Term Deposit schemes spec ifically for resident Indian senior 
citizens, offering higher and fixed rates of interest as compared 
to normal deposits of any size. Provided that this facility is not 
offered on the Term Deposit standing in the name of an HUF or 
the Karta of the Hindu Undivided Family (HUF), even if the Karta 
is a resident Indian Senior Citizen. 
e) Consequence of transfer of branch of one bank to another bank 
Deposits accounts transferred from one bank branch to another bank branch on a ccount 
of takeover of bank branches in rural and semi-urban centres shall adhere to the 
following conditions: 
"deposit accounts shall deemed to be transferred to the new bank branch 
and will continue to be governed by the terms of contract agreed to 
between the customer and the bank branch that is being taken over. 
"the same rate of interest shall be payable till maturity on such transferred 
deposits, as was payable at the time of takeover of the branch. 
Exclusions & Inclusions for additional interest payment to Sr. Citizens@ 0.50% 
Exclusions: 
• All Non Individual/Corporate Customers/Non Resident Customers 
• HUF 
• Accounts under NRE/NRO/FCNR (TD2/TD3/TD8) Schemes 
• All Capital Gains Schemes 
#Accounts under subsidy Schemes 
• Accounts under KVP schemes 
• Bulk Deposits ( Deposit amount >2 er) 
#TD accounts closed within 7 d ays 
• SB accounts 
• Overdue Deposits 
Inclusions: 
#Individual Customers who attains the age of 60 years or more on the date of 
TD account opening or Renewal. 
• As per scheme specific where Sr. Citizen Interest benefit is applicable as per 
Bank's guidelines. 
• Additional interest @0.50% would be payable or as decided by the Bank from 
time to time. 
• Separate interest table code to Sr. Citizen Interest benefit would be available 
for each eligible schemes. Additional interest should not be paid through 
customer or account preferential field in FINAGLE. 
Page 54 of 59 
/M) trifi 3#g; ~ ~ Bank of Baroda 
g :;... IHW 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
14. PROHIBITIONS AND EXEMPTIONS: 
Bank shall not: 
a. Pay any remuneration or fees or commission or brokerage or incentives 
on deposits in any form or manner to any Individual, Firm, Company, 
Association, Institution or any other person except: 
i. Commission paid to agents employed to collect Door-to-Door 
deposits under a special scheme. 
ii. Commission paid to Direct Selling Agents/Direct Marketing Agents 
as part of the outsourcing arrangements. 
iii. Remuneration paid to Business facilitators or Business 
Correspondents. 
b. Offer prize/lottery/free trips (in India and/or abroad), etc. or any other 
incentive having e lement of chance for mobilizing deposits. However, 
inexpensive gifts costing not more than Rupees 250/- which is the amount 
prescribed by the Indian Banks' Association (IBA) as part of the Ground 
Rules and Code of Ethics framed by them may, at the Bank's discretion, 
be given to depositors at the time of accepting deposits. 
c. Resort to unethical practices of raising of resources through agents/third 
parties to meet the credit needs of the existing/prospective borrowers or to 
grant loans to the intermediaries based on the consideration of deposit 
mobilization. 
d. Issue any advertisement/literature soliciting d eposits from public 
highlighting only the compounded yield on term deposits without indicating 
the actual rate of simple interest offered by the Bank for the particular 
period. Simple rate of interest per annum for the period of deposit should 
be indicated invariably. 
e. Accept interest-free deposit other than 1n current account or pay 
compensation indirectly. 
f. Accept deposits from/at the instance o f private financiers or 
Unincorporated Bodies under any arrangement which provides for either 
issue of deposit receipt/s favoring client/s of private financiers or giving of 
f 
,, 
Page 55 of 59 
!M) lfi/i 3ll!li ~ ~ Bank of Baroda 
g .... 1j,fC#M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
an authority by power of attorney, nomination or other-wise, for such 
clients receiving such deposits on maturity. 
g. Grant advances against Term Deposits maintained with other Bank. 
h. Open a Savings Deposit account in the name of Government departments 
/ bodies depending upon budgetary allocations for performance of their 
functions / Municipal Corporations or Municipal Committees / Panchayat 
Samitis / State Housing Boards / Water and Sewerage / Drainage Boards / 
State Text Book Publishing Corporations / Societies / Metropolitan 
Development Authority / State / District Level Housing Co-operative 
Societies, etc. or any political party or any trading/business or professional 
concern, whether such concern is a proprietary or a partnership firm or a 
company or an association and entities other than individuals, Karta of 
HUF and o rganisations/agencies listed in Schedule -1. 
Explanation For the purposes of this clause, 'political party' means an 
association or body of individual citizens of India, which is, or is deemed to 
be registered with the Election Commission of India as a political party 
under the Election Symbols (Reservation and Allotment) Order, 1968 as in 
force for the time being. 
i. Create any fund to be utilized for charitable purposes in consultation with 
the depositors. 
Exemptions: 
The provisions in the ab ove paragraphs shall not be applicable to: 
(a) A Deposit Received by the Bank: 
i. From the institutions permitted to participate in the Call/Notice/Term 
Money Market both as lenders and borrowers. 
ii. For which it has issued a participation certificate; 
iii. Under the Capital Gains Accounts Scheme, 1988, framed by the 
Government of India in pursuance of sub-section (2) of Section 54, 
sub-section (2) of Section 548, sub-section (2) of Section 54D, sub­ 
section (4) of Section 54F and sub-section (2) of Section 54G of the 
Income-Tax Act, 1961; and 
iv. Under the Certificate of Deposit Scheme. 
(b) Payment of Interest on Delayed collection of outstation instruments like 
cheques, drafts, bills, telegraphic/mail transfers, etc. . _ .. \ . ,,,_ 
Page 56 of 59 
Im) dcfi 3ll!li ~ ~ Bank of Baroda 
g :: .. lhfMM 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
15. OTHER IMPORTANT INFORMATION: 
15.1 Customer Information: 
The Bank e nsures to maintain the secrecy of the customers personal 
information. The information is used, if necessary, only internally or for creating 
awareness (telephonic/written) of the new products/services to the customers. 
15.2: Rights of Depositors: 
Bank is having an exclusive "Customers Rights Policy" in vogue duly 
approved by its board. The policy c learly spells out the rights of depositors. 
The policy is available on Bank's website. 
15.3 Secrecy of Customer Account: 
The Bank shall not disclose details/ particulars of the customer's account to a 
third person or party without the expressed or implied consent from the 
customer. However, there are some e xceptions, viz. disclosure of information 
under compulsion of law, where there is a duty to public to disclose and where 
interest of the Bank requires disclosure. The Bank may also disclose the 
customer information, as per the prevailing practice, amongst Banks to 
exchange credit information and credit opinion on the standing (general 
position) of the customers/ borrowers. The Bank follows the gu idelines framed 
by IBA in this regard. 
15.4 Suo-Moto Closure of Saving and Current Account: 
The Bank shall close accounts, which are in contravention of the contract 
constituting the basis of Banker-Customer relationship, do not adhere to the 
prescribed rules and are considered undesirable and un-remunerative. These 
accounts shall be closed only after sending proper written notice to the 
customer with a notice period of 30 days, at the address of the customer as 
per Bank records. Examples of undesirable and un-remunerative features are: 
a) Drawing cheques without funds. 
b) Rash / fraudulent transactions routed through Bank account which may 
expose the Bank to unnecessary risks. 
c) Zero Balance Accounts 
d) Dormant/ Inoperative accounts as per extant RBI Directives. 
Page 57 of 59 
•) tili 3ll!li i@:T 
-~ Bank of Baroda 
g ~--· 1j,FM§M 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
e) Accounts where transactions, such as huge cash transactions, are being 
made, disproportionate to the given profile of the customer. 
f) Accounts in which, in the opinion of the Bank, transactions having Money 
Laundering angle are being conducted. 
g) Accounts, in which, the Bank is not able to ap ply appropriate KYC measures 
due to non - furnishing of information by customer and / or non-cooperation in 
this regard. 
h) Non-compliance of Minimum Balance requirements for current and savings 
account as applicable to the relevant scheme/ product. 
i) Issuing of "Stop Payment" instructions frequently. 
j) Number of transactions far in excess of stipulated limit without 
maintaining sufficient balance. 
k) Default in/Arrears of statutory du es and other payments. 
I) Frequent receipt of Attachment Orders/Notices from various Authorities. 
m) Frequent involvement in section 138 (N.I. Act) proceedings. 
n) Evidence of usage of funds and or receipts of funds for terrorists and 
disruptive activities against the State or society. 
o) Any directive from any Government or Regulatory Authorities for closure of 
account. 
p) An accou nt has been opened by oversight or otherwise in contravention of 
the IBA code for Banking Practice containing, inter-alia, prohibition against 
opening of accounts in the name of certain bodies / organizations, the same 
should be closed after reasonable notice. 
q) Post issuance of notice by Bank, informing Bank's decision to close the A/c 
along with reason if there is no response within the stipulated time (30 
days of notice), the branch may close the accou nt and remit the balance by 
means of Banker's Cheque / Draft in his/her favor after deducting all usual 
service charges. 
For further clarification and guidance please refer to KYC AML Policy. 
Page 58 of 59 
•) -trili 3ll!li ifdic:r ~ Bank of Baroda 
I.I =. IHM 
DEPOSIT POLICY 2023-26 
15.5 Redressal of Complaints and Grievances: 
Depositors having any complaint / grievances with regard to services rendered 
by the Bank has a right to approach authority (ies) designated by the Bank for 
handling customer complaint / grievances . The names of the nodal officers for 
redress of complaints / grievances will be displayed in the branch premises 
and internal set up for redress of complaints is displayed on the Bank's 
website. The branch officials shall provide all required information regarding 
procedure for lodging the complaint. In case the depositor does not get 
response from the Bank within 60 days from the date of complaint or he is not 
satisfied with the response received from the Bank, he has a right to approach 
Banking Ombudsman appointed by the Reserve Bank of India. 
15.6 Compliance: 
a. The schedule of Interest Rates payable on deposits be disclosed in 
advance for the information of the customers. 
b. The interest paid on d eposits below Rs.2.00 crores to all the customers 
should be as per schedule and should not be subject to negotiation 
between the depositor and the Bank. 
c. In case the customer is having Cash Credit or Overdraft facilities in 
banking system, "No Current Account" should be op ened of the 
concerned customer except if the same is permissible under RBl's 
Consolidated Circular on Opening of Current Accounts and CC/OD 
Accounts by Bank issued vide Circular No. RBl/2022-23/27 
DOR.CRE.REC.23/21.08.008/2022-23 dated 19.04.2022. 
d. In case of introduction of New Product, it is to be intensively monitored 
in the first 6 months after introduction. 
e. The Statutory/Regulatory guidelines issued by Regulator/Statutory 
Body/Bank Board be followed scrupulously. 
15.7 Periodicity of Review of the Policy (Sunset Clause): 
The policy will be valid up to 30/09/2026. The directives/guidelines issued by 
RBI in this regard shall automatically become part & parcel of this Policy. The 
policy will remain in force till the renewal of the new policy.The Managing 
Director & CEO may allow continuation of the policy for maximum period of Six 
Months from due date of review in case the policy cannot be reviewed on or 
before due date. 
Page 59 of 59 
