 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Compensation  
 
Policy  
 
Approved by Board vide Agenda No. O - 2 dated 25.03.2022  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operations & Services  
Head Office  
Baroda  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Compensation Policy  
                                                      
Table of Contents  
 
Sr. 
No. Contents /Particulars  Page No.  
 Introduction  
 1 
 Objectives  
 1 
 Scope  
 1 
1 Unauthorized / Erroneous Debit:  
 1 
1.1 Unauthorized Electronic Transactions reported by customers  2 
2 ECS direct debits/other debits to accounts  
 2 
3 Payment of Cheques after Stop Payment Instructions : 3 
4 Foreign Exchange Services:  
 3 
5 Collection Services in India:  
 4 
6 Payment of interest for delays in credit/Return of RTGS 
/NEFT/NECS/ECS transactions.  
 8 
7 Issue of Duplicate Draft and Compensation for delays  
 8 
8 Violation of the Code by banks agent  
 8 
9 Transaction of “at par instruments” of Co -operative Banks by  
Commercial Banks  
 8 
10  
Delay in returning of Security Documents:  
 8 
11 Force Majeure  
 9 
12 ATM Failure  
 9 
13 Customer compensation for failed transactions using 
authorized payment systems  10 
14 Wealth Management  
 11 
15 Pension Payment  11 
16 Standing Instruction  12 
17 Compensation to Retail Individual Investors (RIIs) in an IPO : 
 12 
18 Periodicity of Review of the Policy  
 13  
Page 1 of 13 
 
 
COMPENSATION POLICY  
 
Introduction  
 
Technological progress in payment and settlement systems and the qualitative 
changes in operational systems and processes that have been undertaken by various 
players in the market have enabled market forces of competition to come into play to 
improve effi ciencies in providing better service to the users of the system.  It will be 
the bank’s endeavor to offer services to its customers with best possible utilization of 
its technology infrastructure. Earlier instructions issued by RBI regarding immediate 
credit of local /outstation cheques, time frame for collection of local/outstation 
instruments and interest payment for delayed collection have been withdrawn by   with 
effect from 1st November 2004 leaving it to the individual banks to formulate policies 
in this regard  taking into account their technological capabilities, systems and 
processes adopted for clearing arrangements and other internal arrangements for 
collection through correspondents . A Compensation policy of the bank was therefore, 
designed to cov er areas relating to unauthorized debiting of account, payment of 
interest to customers for delayed collection of cheques/instruments, payment of 
cheques after acknowledgement of stop payment instructions, remittances within 
India, foreign exchange service s, lending, etc., is based on principles of transparency 
and fairness in the treatment of customers.  
  
Objective  
 
The objective of this policy is to establish a system whereby the bank compensates 
the customer for any financial loss he/she might incur due to deficiency in service on 
the part of the bank or any act of omission or commission directly attributable to the 
bank. By ensuring that the customer is compensated without having to ask for it, the 
bank expects instances when the customer has to approach  Banking Ombudsman or 
any other Forum for redressal to come down significantly.   
Scope  
The policy covers only compensation for financial losses which customers might incur 
due to deficiency in the services offered by the bank which can be measured directl y 
and as such the commitments under this policy are without prejudice to any right the 
bank will have in defending its position before any forum duly constituted to adjudicate 
banker -customer disputes.  
Various kinds of financial losses are outlined below:  
1. Unauthorized / Erroneous Debit:  
If the bank has raised an unauthorized/erroneous direct debit to an account, the 
entry will be reversed immediately on being informed of the erroneous debit, after 
verifying the position.  In the event the unauthorized/erro neous debit has resulted 
in a financial loss for the customer by way of reduction in the minimum balance  
Page 2 of 13 
 
applicable for payment of interest on savings bank deposit or payment of 
additional interest to the bank in a loan account, the bank will compensate th e 
customer for such loss. Further, if the customer has suffered any financial loss 
incidental to wrongful return of a cheque or failure to entertain direct debit 
instructions, arising due to insufficient balance on account of unauthorized / 
erroneous debit , the bank will compensate the customer to the e xtent of such 
financial losses after taking into consideration all relevant factors.  
 
In case verification of the entry reported to be erroneous by the customer does not 
involve a third party, the bank shall arrange to complete the process of verification 
within a maximum period of 7 working days from the date of reporting of erroneous 
debit.  In case, the verification involves a third party,  or verifications are to be 
done at overseas centres, the bank shall  strive  to complete the verification 
process within a maximum period of one month from the date of reporting of 
Unauthorised  / Erroneous T ransaction by the customer.  
 
Unauthorised  / Erroneous transaction reported by the customers in respect of 
credit card operations which require reference to a merchant establishment will be 
handled as per rules laid down by card association.  
 
However, the Bank will ensure that wrong bills are not raised and issued to 
customers. In case, a customer protests any bill, the ba nk will provide explanation 
and, if necessary, documentary evidence to the customer within a maximum 
period of sixty days with a spirit to amicably redress the grievances.  
 
1.1 Unauthorised Electronic Transactions reported by customers  
 
As per the circular no. DBR.No.Leg.BC.78/09.07.005/2017 -18 dated July 6, 
2017 issued by the Reserve Bank of India, all Banks are required to formulate 
a Board Approved Customer Protection Policy for unauthorised electronic 
Banking transactions reported by customers.  
 
Accordingly, the Customer Protection Policy for unauthoriz ed electronic 
Banking transactions reported by customers  has been prepared which 
covers , the liability of customers in different scenarios .  
 
For all such transactions, the Bank would be governed by the Board  
Approved Customer Protection Policy . 
 
 
2. ECS direct debits/other debits to accounts  
 
The bank will undertake to carry out direct debit/ ECS debit instructions of 
customers in time. In the event the bank fails to meet such commitment s customer 
will be compensated to the extent of any financial loss the customer would incur 
on account of delay in carrying out the instruction/failure to carry out the 
instructions.  
 
The bank would debit the customer’s account with any applicable service charge 
as per the schedule of charges notified by the bank. In the event the bank levies  
Page 3 of 13 
 
any charge in violation of the arrangement, the bank will reverse the charges when 
pointed out by the customer subject to scrutiny of agreed terms and conditions. 
Any consequential financial loss to the customer will also be compensated.  
 
Where it is established that the bank had issued and activated a credit card without 
written consent of the rec ipient, the bank would not only reverse the charges 
immediately but also pay a penalty without demur to the recipient amounting to 
twice the value of charges reversed  as per the regulatory guidelines in this 
regard.  
 
3. Payment of Cheques after Stop Payment I nstructions:  
 
In case a cheque  has been paid after stop payment instruction is acknowledged 
by the bank, the bank shall reverse the transaction and give value -dated credit 
to protect the interest of the customer. Any consequential financial loss to the 
customer will be compensated as p rovided under Para 1 above. Such debits will 
be reversed within 2 working days of the customer intimating the transaction to 
the bank.  
 
 
4. Foreign Exchange Services:  
 
i. Cheques payable at foreign centers where the bank has branch operations (or 
banking operati ons through  subsidiary, etc) will be collected through that office. 
The services of correspondent banks will be utilized in country / centers where 
the correspondent has presence. Cheques drawn on foreign banks  at centers 
where the bank or its corresponde nts  do not have direct presence will be sent 
direct to drawee bank with instructions to credit proceeds to the respective 
Nostro Account of the bank maintained with one of the correspondent banks.   
 
The maximum period for affording credit will be 25 worki ng days or 1 calendar  
month whichever is higher (subject to holidays in those countries).  
 
The above time norms are applicable irrespective of whether cheques/ 
instruments are drawn on the bank’s own branches or branches of other banks.  
 
However, the bank may consider providing upfront credit by purchasing the 
instrument, if the conduct of the account has been satisfactory in the past, for 
a charge at its sole discretion.  
 
ii. The Bank would not compensate the customer for delays in collectio n of 
cheques designated in foreign currencies sent to foreign countries as the bank 
would not be able to ensure timely credit from overseas banks. It is the bank’s 
experience that time for collection of instruments drawn on banks in foreign 
countries diffe r from country to country and even within a country, from place 
to place. The time norms for return of instruments cleared provisionally also 
vary from country to country.  
 
  
Page 4 of 13 
 
 
iii. However, the bank will compensate the customer for undue delays in affording 
credit once proceeds are credited to the Nostro Account of the bank with its 
correspondent.  Such compensation will be given for delay from the date of final 
credit received in th e Nostro account of the Bank.  
 
iv. Payment of Interest for delayed Collection of Cheques sent for collection 
to foreign countries.  
 
In case of collection of instruments sent for collection to foreign countries the 
effect of credit in Customer’s account is give n from the date of credit to Nostro 
account. In exceptional cases, where there is delay in giving credit, 
Compensation by way of additional interest will be paid to the customer for 
delay in providing credit to the customer from the date of final credit of  funds in 
the NOSTRO account , without the customer requesting for the same and such 
interest will be on “step -up basis” for the period of delay.  
 
Interest for delayed collections beyond the declared period will be payable at   
the following rates.  
 
2% ove r applicable S avings Bank rate of interest for the period of delay from 
date of final credit of funds in the NOSTRO account . 
 
The time norms  for collection and return of the instruments varies from country 
to country and place to place within the country where a ‘cooling period’ is 
prescribed which is the time period from the date of provisional Nostro credit , 
which Branches should observe before passing on the credit to the Payee of 
the Cheque. The cooling period for various centres is as under:  
 
o On New York, USA 6 working days  
o On other centres in the USA is 15 working days  
o On London, UK is 5 working days  
o On other centres in UK is 15 working days  
o On Brussels one month.  
 
The customer will also be compensated for the loss on account of adverse 
movement of exchange rate i.e. loss due to exchange rate difference, if any, 
between the actual exchange rate at which foreign currency is converted into 
Indian Rupees and the exchange rate as on the latest due date of payment.  
 
 
5. Collection Services in India:  
 
The com pensation on account of delays in collection of instruments would be 
as indicated in the bank’s collection policy which is reproduced below for 
information:  
 
  
Page 5 of 13 
 
a) Collection of local cheques : 
All cheques and other Negotiable Instruments payable locally would b e 
presented through the clearing system prevailing at the centre. Cheques 
deposited at branch counters and in cheque drop boxes before the specified 
cut-off time will be presented for clearing on the same day. Cheques deposited 
after the cut -off time in ch eque drop boxes within and outside the branch 
premises including off -site ATMs will be presented in the next clearing cycle. 
As a policy, bank would give credit to the customer account on the day clearing 
settlement takes place. Withdrawal of amounts so cr edited would be permitted 
as per the cheque return schedule of the clearinghouse at the centre.  Wherever 
applicable, facility of high -value clearing   will be extended to customers.   
Wherever CTS Clearing has been implemented cheques will be credited as per 
clearing settlement at CTS centres.  
           The respective branches will display the cut -off time for receipt of cheques to 
be sent in clearing on the same day in their premises. The cut -off time for 
collection of cheque from drop boxes installed a t off-site ATM will be displayed 
on the face of the drop boxes. Accordingly, cut -off time for receipt of high value 
clearing and receipt of cheque for payment to Government account like Income 
Tax etc., will also be displayed in the branches.  
The Bank bra nches situated at centres where no clearing house exists, would 
present local cheques on drawee banks across the counter and  it would be the 
bank’s endeavour to credit the proceeds at the earliest.   
Local cheques  drawn on our branches received during the business  hours will 
be credited in the customers account on the same day.  
Local cheques drawn on local branches of other banks whether under CTS 
clearing mechanism or otherwise will be credited as per rules of lo cal clearing 
house.  
Local cheques drawn on local branches of other banks where clearing house 
does not function will be subject to cheque collection rules .  
b) Payment of interest for delayed collection of Local Cheques:  
The Bank will pay interest to its customer on the    amount of collection of local 
cheques at the Savings bank interest rate in case there is delay in giving credit 
beyond the time frame for collection of local cheques as given above.  
Interest will be paid for  the period of delay excluding normal collection  period if 
the amount of interest is Rs.1 or above.  
  
Page 6 of 13 
 
Time norms for collection of local cheques:  
Cheques deposited at branch counters and in cheque  drop boxes before the 
specified cut -off time will be presented for clearing during immediate cycle of 
clearing. Cheques deposited after the cut -off time in cheque drop boxes within 
and outside the branch premises including off -site ATMs will be presented in 
the next clearing cycle. As a policy, bank would give credit to the customer 
account on the day clearing settlement takes place.  
 
The Bank branches, situated at centers where there are no arrangements of 
clearing house, would present local cheques on d rawee banks across the 
counter and it would be the bank’s endeavor to credit the proceeds at the 
earliest.  But not later than 3rd working day from the date of deposit by customer.   
 
c)   “Payment of Interest for delayed Collection of Outstation Cheques:  
The bank will pay interest to its customer on the amount of collection 
instruments in case there is delay in giving credit beyond t he time period. Such 
interest shall be paid without any demand from customers in all types of 
accounts.  There shall be no distin ction between instruments drawn on the 
bank’s own branches or on other banks for the purpose of payment of interest 
on delayed collection.   
Interest for delayed collection shall be paid at the following rates:  
i. Interest will be paid at Savings Bank rate fo r the period of delay beyond the 
stipulated period for collection.   
 
 
Time frame for collection –  
 
 Cheques payable at CTS centre : Maximum period of 7 days,  
 Non CTS centres: Maximum period of 10 days.  
 
ii. Where the delay is beyond 14 days interest will be paid at the rate applicable 
to for term deposit for the corresponding / respective period or  Savings 
Bank rate, whichever is higher.  
 
iii. In case of extraordinary delay, i.e. delays exceeding 90 days interest will be 
paid at the rate of 2% above the correspond ing Term Deposit rate.  
 
iv. In the event the proceeds of cheque  under collection were to be credited to 
an overdraft/loan account of the customer, interest will be paid at the rate 
applicable to the loan account.  For extraordinary delays, interest will be 
paid at the rate of 2% above the rate applicable to the loan a ccount.  
 
v. Bank will pay interest to its customer at Savings bank rate for the delay in 
realization/ non -credit of cheques deposited for collection / clearing, 
wrongful dishonour of cheques on account of mistake on part of the bank.  
  
Page 7 of 13 
 
It may be noted that int erest payment as given above would be applicable only 
for instruments sent for collection within India.  
The bank’s compensation policy for financial loss suffered by the customers 
due to loss of instrument after it has been handed over to the bank for col lection 
by the customer is also incorporated in our collection policy.  The same is 
extracted below for information:  
 
d)   “Cheques  / Instruments lost in transit / in clearing process or at paying 
bank’s branch:  
In the event a cheque  or an instrument accepted for collection is lost in transit 
or in the clearing process or at the paying bank’s branch, the bank shall 
immediately on coming to know of the loss, bring the same to the notice of the 
accountholder so that the accountholder ca n inform the drawer to record stop 
payment and also take care that cheques, if any, issued by him / her are not 
dishonoured due to non -credit of the amount of the lost cheques / instruments.  
The bank would provide all assistance to the customer to obtain a duplicate 
instrument from the drawer of the cheque.  
The bank will compensate the accountholder in respect of instruments lost in 
transit in the following way:  
a) In case intimation regarding loss of instrument is conveyed to the customer 
beyond the time lim it stipulated for collection (7/10/14 days as the case may 
be) interest will be paid for the period exceeding the stipulated collectio n 
period at the rates specified in Point c ( i). 
 
b) In addition, bank will pay interest on the amount of the cheque for a fur ther 
period of 15 days at Savings Bank rate to provide for likely further delay in 
obtaining duplicate cheque/instrument and collection thereof.  
 
c) The charges incurred for making stop payment of the lost cheque by the 
customer with the Paying Bank will be compensated by the Bank.  
 
d) The bank would also compensate the customer for any reasonable charges 
he/she incurs in getting duplicate cheque/instrument upon production of 
receipt, in the event the instrument is to be obtained from a bank/ institution 
who wou ld charge a fee for issue of duplicate instrument.    
 
 
 
 
 
  
Page 8 of 13 
 
6. Payment of interest for delays in credit/Return of RTGS /NEFT/NECS/ECS 
transactions.  
 
The Bank will pay interest to its customers on account of delay in credit /Return 
of RTGS/NEFT/NECS/ECS transactions. The interest will be paid at the rate of 
prevailing RBI LAF Repo Rate plus two percent from the due date of credit till 
the date of actual credit for any delayed credit to the beneficiaries account even 
if no claim is lodged.  
 
7. Issue of Duplic ate Draft and Compensation for delays  
 
Duplicate draft will be issued within a fortnight from the receipt of such request 
from the purchaser along with submission of documents as prescribed by 
the bank. For delay beyond the above stipulated period, interest at the rate 
applicable for Fixed deposit of Corresponding period will be paid as 
compensation to the customer for such delay.  
 
 
8. Violation of the Code by bank ’s agent  
 
In the event of receipt of any complaint from the customer that the bank’s 
representative / courier or DSA is engaged in any improper conduct or acted in 
violation of the Code of Bank’s Commitment to Customers which the bank has 
adopted voluntarily, the ba nk is committed to investigate the matter and 
endeavor to communicate  the findings to the customer within 7 working days 
from the date of receipt of complaint and wherever justified, compensate the 
customer for financial loss, if any, as contemplated unde r this policy.   
 
9. Transaction of “at par instruments” of Co -operative Banks by  Commercial 
Banks  
 
The RBI has expressed concern over the lack of transparency in the 
arrangement for payment of “at par” instruments of co -operative banks by 
commercial banks resulting in dishonour of such instruments when the remitter 
has already paid for the instruments. In this connection it is clarified that the 
bank will not honour cheques drawn on current accounts maintained by other 
banks with it unless arrangements are made for funding cheques issued. 
Issuing bank should be responsible to compensate the cheque holder for non 
payment / delayed payment of cheques in the absence of adequate funding 
arrangement.  
10. Delay in returning of Security Documents:  
The bank has adopted the principles of lenders of liability. In terms of the 
guidelines for lenders liability, and the Code of Bank’s Commitment to 
customers adopted by the bank, the bank would return to the borrowers all the 
securities / documents / title  deeds to mortgaged property within 15 days of 
repayment of all dues agreed to or contracted. The bank will compensate the  
Page 9 of 13 
 
borrower for monetary loss suffered, if any due to delay in return of the same. 
In the event of loss of title deeds to mortgage prope rty at the hands of the banks 
the compensation will cover out of pocket expenses for obtaining duplicate 
documents plus a lump su m amount as decided by the bank.  
11. Force Majeure  
The bank shall not be liable to compensate customers for delayed credit if some 
unforeseen event (including but not limited to civil commotion, sabotage, 
lockout, strike or other labour disturbances, accident, fires, natural disasters or 
other “Acts of God”, war, damage to the bank’s facilities or of its correspondent 
bank(s), absence  of the usual means of communication or all types of 
transportation, etc.) beyond the control of the bank, prevents it from performing 
its obligations within the specified service delivery parameters.  
 
12. ATM Failure:  
Bank would reimburse the customer, the am ount wrongfully debited on account 
of failed ATM within a maximum period of 5 working days from the date of 
receipt of the complaint . For any failure to re -credit the customer’s account 
within 5 working days from the date of receipt of the complaint, bank shall pay 
compensation of Rs.100/ - per day to the aggrieved customer. The 
compensation will be paid from the eighth day till re -credit of the amount . 
This compensation shall be credited to the customer’s account automatically 
without any claim from the cus tomer, on the same day when bank affords the 
credit for the failed ATM transactions.  
Any customer is entitled to receive such compensation for delay, only if a claim 
is lodged with the issuing bank within 30 days of the date of transaction. For 
claim lodg ed after 30 days no compensation will be paid.   
In case our customer (card holder) uses other Bank's ATM and does not get 
cash, and his/her account is debited the customer is required to register a 
complaint in a specified Complaint Form, giving the comple te details of 
transaction to the base branch where he is maintaining account. Branch in turn 
will register complaint with respective department (Reconciliation & CRM Cell, 
BOB Jogeshwari), who will raise the Chargeback / claim with the Acquiring / 
concerne d bank whose ATM is used by our customer. In reply, following 
feedback is expected from Acquiring Bank:  
a. If the transactions is failed : Acquirer Bank will accept the Chargeback 
within 10 days (after initiation of chargeback) and amount received will 
be credited in customer's account directly.  
  
Page 10 of 13 
 
b. If the transactions is successful:   Electronic Journal / Journal Print of 
transaction as a proof will be received (within 10 days, after initiation of 
chargeback) from Acquiring Bank, stating transaction as success ful, 
which will be sent to Branch with a covering letter (as a proof of 
successful transaction to customer) from Bank's respective Recon / 
CRM Cell.”  
 
13. Customer compensation for failed transactions using authori zed Payment 
Systems  
Sl. 
no.  Description of the incident  Framework for auto -reversal and compensation  
Timeline for auto -reversal  Compensation payable  
I II III IV 
2  Card Transaction  
a  Card to card transfer  
Card account debited but the 
beneficiary card account not 
credited.  Transaction to be reversed (R) 
latest within T + 1 day, if credit 
is not effected to the 
beneficiary account.  ₹ 100/- per day of delay 
beyond T + 1 day.  
b  Point of Sale (PoS) (Card 
Present) including Cash at 
PoS  
Account debited but 
confirmation not re ceived at 
merchant location i.e., 
charge -slip not generated.  Auto-reversal within T + 5 
days.  
  ₹ 100/- per day of delay 
beyond T + 5 days.  
c  Card Not Present (CNP) (e -
commerce)  
Account debited but 
confirmation not received at 
merchant’s system.  
3  Immediate Payment System (IMPS)  
a  Account debited but the 
beneficiary account is not 
credited.  If unable to credit to 
beneficiary account, auto 
reversal (R) by the Beneficiary 
bank latest on T + 1 day.  ₹100/- per day if delay is 
beyond T + 1 day.  
4  Unified Payments Interface (UPI)  
a  Account debited but the 
beneficiary account is not 
credited (transfer of funds).  If unable to credit the 
beneficiary account, auto 
reversal (R) by the Beneficiary 
bank latest on T + 1 day.  ₹100/- per day if delay  is 
beyond T + 1 day.  
b  Account debited but 
transaction confirmation not 
received at merchant location 
(payment to merchant).  Auto-reversal within T + 5 
days.  ₹100/- per day if delay is 
beyond T + 5 days.  
5  Aadhaar  Enabled Payment System (including Aadhaar Pay)  
a  Account debited but 
transaction confirmation not 
received at merchant 
location.  
 Acquirer to initiate “Credit 
Adjustment” within T + 5 days.  
 ₹100/- per day if delay is 
beyond T + 5 days.  
 
b Account debited but 
beneficiary account not 
credited.  
 
 
  
Page 11 of 13 
 
6 Aadhaar Payment Bridge System (APBS)  
a  Delay in crediting 
beneficiary’s account.  
 Beneficiary bank to reverse the 
transaction within T + 1 day.  ₹100/- per day if delay is 
beyond T + 1 day.  
 
7  National Automated Clearing House (NACH)  
a  Delay in crediting 
beneficiary’s account or 
reversal of amount.  
 Beneficiary bank to reverse the 
uncredited transaction within T 
+ 1 day.  
 ₹100/- per day if delay is 
beyond T + 1 day.  
b Account debited despite 
revocation of debit mandate 
with the bank by the 
customer.  Customer’s bank will be 
responsible for such debit. 
Resolution to be completed 
within T + 1 day.  
8 Prepaid Payment Instruments (PPIs) – Cards / Wallets  
a  Off-Us transaction  
The transaction will ride on UPI, card network, IMPS, etc., as the case may be. The TAT 
and compensation rule of respective system shall apply.  
b  On-Us transaction  
 
Beneficiary’s PPI not 
credited.  
 
PPI debited but transaction 
confi rmation not received at 
merchant location.  Reversal effected in Remitter’s 
account within T + 1 day.  
 ₹100/- per day if delay is 
beyond T + 1 day.  
 
 
 
 
 
14. Wealth Management Products:  
   Bank is a Corporate Agent and distributor of Insurance and Mutual Fund 
Products respectively. For any deficiencies in services bank will assist 
customers to raise th eir grievances with the tie -up partners.  
For any deficiencies in services at bank level raised by customer, the issue will 
be examined by the functional head and based on circumstantial evidence and 
finding lapse on the Bank’s part, customer will be compensated  as p er the 
provisions of this polic y. 
15.     Pension payment  
In case of delayed pension payments, bank will compensate for delay in 
crediting pension/arrears thereof at a fixed interest rate of 8 percent per annum 
for the delay after the due date of payment and the compensation will be 
credited to the pensioner’s account automatically without any claim from the 
pensioner on the same day when the  bank affords credit for revised 
pension/pension arrears, in respect of all delayed pension payments.   
 
 
 
  
Page 12 of 13 
 
16. Standing Instruction  
 
In case of failure of standing instructions given by customer, bank will 
compensate to customer as the case may be from the da te of failure of Standing 
instruction to till the claim settled after lodgement by customer.  
 
17. Compensation to Retail Individual Investors (RIIs) in an IPO:  
 
There have been instances where the applicants in an Initial Public Offering 
have failed to get all otment of specified securities and in the process may have 
suffered an opportunity loss due to the following factors:  
 
a. Failure on part of the Self Certified Syndicate Banks (SCSBs) to make 
bids in the concerned Exchange system even after the amount has been 
blocked in the investors’ bank account with such SCSB.  
b. Failure on part of the SCSB to process the ASBA applications even when 
they have been submitted within time.  
c. Any other failures on part of an SCSB which has resulted in the rejection 
of the appli cation form.  
 
For calculating compensation, the following factors may be taken into account:  
 
a. the opportunity loss suffered by the investor due to non -allotment of 
shares;  
b. the number of times the issue was oversubscribed in the relevant 
category;  
c. the pro bability of allotment; and  
d. the listing gains if any on the day of listing.  
 
The formula for calculation of minimum fair compensation is as follows:  
  
  Compensation =  (Listing price* 
minus Issue Price)  X  No. of shares that 
would have been 
allotted if bid was 
successful  X  Probability of allotment 
of shares determined on 
the basis of allotment  
*Listing price shall be taken as the highest of the opening prices on the day of 
listing across the recognized stock Exchanges.  
 
 
 It is also that in case of issues which are subscribed between 90 -100%, i.e. 
non oversubscribed issues, the applicants would be compensated for all 
the shares which they would have been allotted.  
 
 No compensation would be payable to the applicant in case the listing price 
is below t he issue price.  
 
 Any applicant whose application has not been considered for allotment, due 
to failure on the part of the SCSB, shall have the option to seek redressal 
of the same within three months of the listing date with the concerned 
SCSB. On receipt  of such application/s, the SCSB would be required to 
resolve the same within 15 days, failing which it would have to pay interest  
Page 13 of 13 
 
at the rate of 15% per annum for any delay beyond the said period of 15 
days.  
 
Compensation in case SCB fail to unblock the IPO amount for non-allotment of shares  
 As per SEBI’s circular: SEBI/HO/CFD/DIL2/CIR/P/2021/2480/1/M dated 
march16, 2021, it has been mandated to the SCSB’s to unblock the IPO amount 
for non -allotted Customers on BOA +1 (BOA - Basis of Allotment), failure to 
unblock the funds on BOA +1 would lead to SCSBs paying compensation to 
customers @ Rs.100/day or 15% per annum of the application amount, 
whichever is higher.  
 The IPO amounts have to be unblocked on BOA+1 as per the Unblocking file 
shared by the  RTI Post allotment of the IPO.  
 
Scenario  
Investor has applied in an IPO with an application amount of Rs.15,000/ -. The Public 
Issue is closed on November 02, 2020. The Investor got no -allotment and hence, the 
effective date for unblocking of funds shall be November 06, 2020 (BOA+1). However, 
Investor has raised a complaint on pending unblock of funds with Lead 
Managers/SCSB on November 25, 2020. The SCSB unblocks the amount in investors 
account on November 30, 2020.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
18. Periodicity of Review of the Policy  
 
The compensation Policy will be valid upto 31st March, 202 5.   
 
“Post the approval of the Policy, any changes made by the RBI on the rules 
and regulations in respect of Compensation Policy shall form an integral 
part of the Policy, pending their formal inclusion at the time of the next 
renewal of the Policy”.  
***                                               Compensation by SCSBs  
Rs.100/ - per day or 15% per annum of the application amount, whichever is 
higher.  
Duration : November 06, 2020 to November 25, 2020  